Woodruff: GOOD AFTERNOON
I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
WELCOME TO "THE SESSIONS
HEARING" SPECIAL PBS NEWSHOUR
COVERAGE OF ATTORNEY GENERAL
JEFF SESSIONS' TESTIMONY BEFORE
THE SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE ON
INTELLIGENCE.
THIS IS A RARE MOMENT--
A MEMBER OF PRESIDENT DONALD
TRUMP'S CABINET-- TESTIFYING
BEFORE HIS FORMER SENATE
COLLEAGUES.
REPORTING FROM THE CLOSED
SESSION OF FORMER F.B.I.
DIRECTOR JAMES COMEY'S TESTIMONY
SUGGEST THAT THE ATTORNEY
GENERAL MAY HAVE HAD AN
ADDITIONAL MEETING WITH RUSSIAN
OFFICIALS THAT HE DID NOT
DISCLOSE DURING THE CONFIRMATION
PROCESS.
THIS IS LIKELY TO BE ONE LINE OF
QUESTIONING THIS AFTERNOON.
HAVING RECUSED HIMSELF FROM THE
RUSSIA INVESTIGATION, WHY WAS
THE ATTORNEY GENERAL INVOLVED IN
THE FIRING OF THE FORMER FBI
DIRECTOR JAMES COMEY.
SO JOINING ME WITH ANALYSIS OF
TODAY'S HEARING IS WALTER
DELLINGER, HE SERVED IN BILL
CLINTON'S ADMINISTRATION AS
ASSISTANT ATTORNEY GENERAL.
HE IS CURRENTLY AN ATTORNEY IN
PRIVATE PRACTICE.
THANK YOU FOR JOINING US.
WE HAVE BEEN LOOKING FORWARD TO
THE TESTIMONY FROM THE ATTORNEY
GENERAL.
WE WEREN'T CLEAR EXACTLY WHETHER
IT WAS GOING TO BE OPEN OR
CLOSED SESSION.
BUT WHAT IS IT WE ARE MAINLY
LOOKING FOR THESE SENATORS TO
SPEAK TO HIM ABOUT?
>> I THINK WHAT THE SENATORS
WANT TO KNOW IS, IS THIS
INVESTIGATION GOING FORWARD,
FULLY AND FREELY AND WITHOUT
INTERFERENCE?
IT IS IRONIC THAT SINCE THE
ATTORNEY GENERAL RECUSED HIMSELF
FROM MATTERS INVOLVING THE
CAMPAIGN, RUSSIAN INVOLVEMENT OR
ANY OTHER CAMPAIGN ISSUES THAT
WE'RE INTERESTED WHAT HE HAS TO
SAY ABOUT THE INVESTIGATION.
BECAUSE PRESUMABLY HE'S RECUSED
FROM IT.
>> Woodruff: THERE ARE STILL
QUESTIONS ABOUT IT.
AS WE ARE TALKING IN THE STUDIO,
WE HAVE THE LIVE CAMERA IN THE
SENATE INTELLIGENCE COMMITTEE
HEARING ROOM.
THEY ARE WAITING FOR THE
ATTORNEY GENERAL TO JOIN THEM AT
ANY MOMENT.
SEEMS TO ME THERE ARE SEVERAL
LINES OF QUESTIONING.
ONE DOES AS YOU JUST SAID, HAS
TO DO WITH WHAT WAS HIS ROLE
REPRESENTING THE TRUMP CAMPAIGN
OR DURING THE TRANSITION PERIOD
BEFORE DONALD TRUMP, BEFORE THE
ELECTION AND THE DAY DONALD
TRUMP WAS INAUGURATED.
WHY WERE THOSE SESSIONS HEMMED?
IN I THINK THE SENATORS GOING TO
WANT TO KNOW, WHAT DID HE
TESTIFY ABOUT, HOW WAS THIS
INVESTIGATION SET UP, AND WHAT
ROLE HE PLAYED IN THE FIRING OF
THE FBI DIRECTOR JAMES COMEY.
AND SOME SENATORS WILL ASK
WHETHER IT WAS APPROPRIATE FOR
HIM TO HAVE PLAYED A ROLE IN
FIRING COMEY SINCE HE'S
REACCUSED FROM THAT PARTICULAR
INVESTIGATION.
>> Woodruff: WE SHOULD SAY
LAST THURSDAY FIVE DAYS AGO WHEN
THE FIRED FBI DIRECTOR JAMES
COMEY SAT IN THAT SAME CHAIR
PRESUMABLY THAT THE ATTORNEY
GENERAL JEFF SESSIONS IS GOING
TO BE SITTINGS IN THIS
AFTERNOON.
AS WE JUST SAID WALTER
DELLINGER, HE IS PUZZLED, WITH
THE ROLE HE PLAYED, I DON'T KNOW
WHAT ROLE HE PLAYED.
>> I THINK THE DISEEFTION OF
ATTORNEY GENERAL SESSIONS WOULD
BE THAT HE IS RECUSED FROM A
PARTICULAR MATTER WHICH IS THIS
INVESTIGATION, OR ANY
INVESTIGATION INTO THE CAMPAIGN
AND THE DISMISSAL OF THE FBI
DIRECTOR, HE WILL ARGUE I WOULD
ASSUME IS A MATTER OF THE
GENERAL ASSESSMENT OF HIS
PERFORMANCE.
THAT IS, HE IS STILL THE
ATTORNEY GENERAL, RESPONSIBLE
FOR WHO REPORTS TO THE ATTORNEY
GENERAL.
IT IS SLICING THINGS FAIRLY
NARROWLY AS SAYING IT'S NOT THE
SAME THING AS THE INVESTIGATION,
THE FIRING OF COMEY.
THAT'S THE LINE I THINK THAT
ATTORNEY GENERAL SESSIONS WILL
HAVE TO ARGUE.
>> Woodruff: WHAT'S MADE THIS
OF COURSE A GREATER NEWS
INTEREST IS THE FACT THAT
ORIGINALLY THE STATEMENTS THAT
WERE PUT OUT BY THE JUSTICE
DEPARTMENT BY THE WHITE HOUSE
HAD TO DO WITH THE DIRECTOR,
THEN DIRECTOR COMEY'S RUNNING OF
THE FBI, HOW HE RAN THE FBI, HOW
HE MANAGED THE FBI AND HOW HE
HANDLED THE HILLARY CLINTON
E-MAIL INVESTIGATION.
THAT'S WHAT THEY ORIGINALLY
REFERRED TO.
BUT THEN, IN THE DAYS AFTER
THAT, IT CAME OUT THAT THE
PRESIDENT, AND THE PRESIDENT
HIMSELF IT TURNED OUT, TO THE
RUSSIAN DIPLOMATS HE HAD THE
FOREIGN MINTS FROM RUSSIA,
FOREIGN MINISTER OF RUSSIA AND
THE AMBASSADOR TO THE UNITED
STATES FROM RUSSIA, HE TOLD THEM
DIRECTLY ONE OF THE REASONS HE
FIRED THE FBI DIRECTOR HAD TO DO
WITH THE RUSSIAN INVESTIGATION
AND NOT THE HILLARY CLINTON
INVESTIGATION.
>> I THINK THEY WILL HAVE HIM
CLARIFY, PERHAPS HE WILL
DIRECTLY DISAGREE WITH FORMER
FBI DIRECTOR COMEY ON SOME
MATTERS.
I HOPE THAT THE SENATORS DON'T
USE HOLD OF THE FACT THAT
OVERARCHING THIS IS A HOSTILE
MILITARY POWER TO INFLUENCE OUR
ELECTIONS.
WE SOMETIMES GET LOST IN THE
MINUTIAE.
AND RATHER THAN THE ASSAULT ON
OUR STATE BY A FOREIGN POWER.
>> Woodruff: EXACTLY.
TIES BETWEEN THE TRUMP CAMPAIGN,
PEOPLE AROUND DONALD TRUMP ANDRE
DONALD TRUMP ANDRUSSIAN
OFFICIALS. YOU NOT ONLY HAVE THE
INVESTIGATION, WHAT WAS THE
INVESTIGATION BY THE FBI THAT'S
NOW BEEN TRANSFERRED TO THE
SPECIAL COUNSEL RUN BY ROBERT
MUELLER, THE FORMER FBI
DIRECTOR, AND BY THE WAY WE'VE
HAD NEWS OVER THE LAST DAY OR SO
INCLUDING AN INTERVIEW RIGHT
HERE ON THE NewsHOUR, WITH THE
FRIEND OF THE PRESIDENT, THE
PRESIDENT IS THINKING ABOUT
WHETHER TO TERMINATE ROBERT
MUELLER.
>> YOU MADE SOME NEWS ON THE
NewsHOUR WITH THAT INTERVIEW.
>> IN ADDITION TO THAT YOU HAD
TWO SENATE COMMITTEES LOOKING
INTO THIS RUSSIA INVESTIGATION.
AND THEN SEPARATELY FROM ALL
THAT WALTER DELLINGER, THERE ARE
NEWS REPORTS COMING OUT ALMOST
DAILY, I KNOW BLOOMBERG NEWS HAD
ONE THIS MORNING, EVIDENCE THAT
THE REITERATIONS WERE NOT ONLY
HACK INTO E-MAILS OF THE
DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE
AND HILLARY CLINTON, BUT THEY
WERE ACTIVELY, IT TURNS OUT
TRYING TO INTERFERE WITH THE
ELECTION MACHINERY IN DOZENS OF
STATES AROUND THE COUNTRY.
>> I THINK THEY MIGHT TAKE
ATTORNEY GENERAL SESSIONS BEYOND
HIS PARTICULAR OWN IETIONS AND
ASK HIM AS ATTORNEY GENERAL, AS
CHIEF LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER
HOW HE THINKS HE OUGHT TO
RESPOND WITH WHAT MAY BE A
CONTINUING RUSSIAN ASSAULT ON
OUR DEMOCRATIC PROCESSES.
THIS IS NOT A REPUBLICAN OR
DEMOCRATIC ISSUE.
THEY COULD EASILY TURN ON A
DIFFERENTLY PARTY, DEPENDING ON
IF THE RUSSIANS THOUGHT THERE
WAS A REPUBLICAN CANDIDATE THAT
WAS GOING TO TAKE US BACK TO THE
ERA OF REAGAN, I CAN SEE THE
RUSSIANS GOING AFTER THAT
CANDIDATE AS WELL.
THIS IS A VERY SERIOUS MATTER.
>> Woodruff: IT IS AND AGAIN,
ALL SORTS OF DOORS HAVE BEEN
OPENED AS THIS STORY, AS IT
BECAME -- AS MORE BECAME KNOWN.
WE HEARD DIRECTOR COMEY WHO
FIRED -- FIRED FBI DIRECTOR
COMEY TESTIFY LAST WEEK TESTIFY
ABOUT HOW THIS ALL FIRST EVOLVED
LAST SUMMER OR EVEN LAST SPRING
WHEN THEY FIRST GOT FORECAST
ABOUT POSSIBLE CONNECTION,
COMMUNICATION BETWEEN OFFICIALS,
PEOPLE AROUND DONALD TRUMP AND
RUSSIAN OFFICIALS.
SO THIS IS NOW BEEN GOING ON FOR
ALMOST A YEAR.
>> RIGHT.
WE DON'T KNOW HOW FAR ALONG THIS
INVESTIGATION IS.
I THINK THAT WE -- THE SPECIAL
COUNSEL WILL KEEP A VERY TIGHT
LID ON.
HE HAS A VERY PROFESSIONAL GROUP
OF PEOPLE WORKING FOR HIM.
I DON'T THINK THERE WILL BE AS
MANY LEAKS IN THE FUTURE.
>> Woodruff: SO WALTER
DELLINGER, I'M TALKING TO WALTER
DELLINGER, FORMER OFFICIAL, IT
LOOKS LIKE STAFF IS BEING SEATED
BEHIND THE SENATORS.
WHAT WE'RE GETTING READY TO
LISTEN TO IS TESTIMONY FROM THE
ATTORNEY GENERAL OF THE UNITED
STATES.
JEFF SESSIONS, HIS FIRST
TESTIMONY BEFORE FELLOW SENATORS
SINCE HIS CONFIRMATION HEARINGS
BACK SEVERAL MONTHS AGO.
LET'S TALK ABOUT HIM FOR A
MINUTE.
HE WAS THE FIRST AND FOR A LONG
TIME WALTER DELLINGER, THE ONLY
MEMBER OF THE UNITED STATES
SENATE TO EMBRACE DONALD TRUMP'S
CANDIDACY.
>> THE CONNECTION WAS VERY DEEP
AND I'M SURE THE PRESIDENT WAS
VERY UPSET WHEN ATTORNEY GENERAL
SESSIONS RECUSED HIMSELF FROM
THE RUSSIAN INVESTIGATION.
THAT SET IN MOTION WHEREBY THE
PRESIDENT'S NOMINEE FOR DEPUTY
ATTORNEY GENERAL, ROD ROSENSTEIN
DECIDED TO APPOINT A SPECIAL
COUNSEL.
I THINK ONE OF THE THINGS THE
SENATE COMMITTEE MEMBERS MAY
WELL FOCUS ON IS THAT
CONVERSATION ALONE BETWEEN THE
PRESIDENT AND THEN FBI DIRECTOR
COMEY IN THE OVAL OFFICE FROM
WHICH SESSIONS WAS -- WHERE WAS
EXCUSED.
>> WAS ABSENT FROM THE ROOM.
THAT WAS A CONVERSATION IN WHICH
THE PRESIDENT HOPED THE FBI
DIRECTOR WOULD FIND A WAY TO END
THE INVESTIGATION AND GENERAL
MIKE FLYNN'S CONNECTIONS TO THE
RUSSIANS.
>> Woodruff: I WOULD EXPECT
THAT SOME OF THESE SENATORS ARE
GOING TO ASK THE ATTORNEY
GENERAL WHY HE LEFT THE ROOM,
KNOWING IT WAS THE FBI DIRECTOR.
IT LOOKS LIKE WE ARE GETTING
CLOSER.
>> I BELIEVE THERE IS ATTORNEY
GENERAL SESSIONS NOW SHAKE HANDS
WITH VARIOUS FAMILY MEMBERS OF
HIS.
>> AND WALKING TOWARDS THE SEAT
AND THE PHOTOGRAPHERS OF COURSE
SNAPPING AWAY.
>> THIS IS A VERY TENSE MOMENT
FOR ATTORNEY GENERAL.
>> Woodruff: IT IS, IT IS.
A LOT OF QUESTIONS ABOUT HIS
RELATIONSHIP WITH THE FIRED FBI
DIRECTOR, THE ROLE HE PLAYED, IF
ANY, IN THAT FIRING, HIS
CONNECTION WITH RUSSIAN
OFFICIALS AND WE SHOULD POINT
OUT WAWRT DELLINGER, THE
ATTORNEY GENERAL ASKED THAT HE
TESTIFY IN THE OPEN IN THE
PUBLIC THAT IT NOT BE BEHIND
CLOSED DOORS.
SO I GUESS THE SENSE THE FROM
THE ADMINISTRATION THAT THEY DID
NOT WANT -- HE'S REGRETTING
RICHARD BURR, WHO IS THE
CHAIRMAN OF THE SENATE SELECT
COMMITTEE ON INTELLIGENCE, BURR
BEING THE SENATOR FROM NORTH
CAROLINA AND REPUBLICAN SENATOR
AND THE VICE CHAIRMAN OF THE
COMMITTEE, MARK WARNER, THEY
WERE THE LEADERS OF THE THIS
COMMITTEE AS FBI DIRECTOR, THE
FIRED FBI DIRECTOR JAMES COMEY
TESTIFIED LAST WEEK.
WE ARE LOOKING AT SEVERAL LINES
OF QUESTIONING HERE.
CONNECTIONS WITH RUSSIAN HE,
POSSIBLE ROLE IN THE FIRING OF
JAMES COMEY, HIS ROLE, HIS
RELATIONSHIP TO DONALD TRUMP,
THE FACT THAT HE LEFT THE ROOM,
THAT THE OVAL OFFICE THE DAY --
>> I THINK THE GENERAL AREA OF
RELATION, THE PROPER
RELATIONSHIPS BETWEEN THE
POLITICAL FORCES IN THE WHITE
HOUSE AND THE JUSTICE
DEPARTMENT.
>> Woodruff: I'M TOLD WALTER
DELLINGER, THE REASON FOR THIS
DELAY, THIS COMMITTEE WAS
SUPPOSED TO BE GETTING UNDERWAY
AT 2:30 SHARP, THERE WAS
SUPPOSED TO BE A VOTE ON THE
FLOOR OF THE SENATE.
THEY NOW CAN GET UNDERWAY, THEIR
PRINCIPAL WITNESS, SINGLE
WITNESS TODAY TO TESTIFY BEFORE
THEM THE ATTORNEY GENERAL OF THE
UNITED STATES, FORMER SENATOR
FROM THE STATE OF ALABAMA JEFF
SESSIONS, WHO KNOWS MANY OF
THESE SENATORS VERY WELL.
THIS IS THE CHAIRMAN GAVELING TO
ORDER.
NORTH CAROLINA REPUBLICAN
SENATOR RICHARD BURR.
>> ATTORNEY GENERAL SESSIONS,
APPRECIATE YOUR WILLINGNESS TO
APPEAR BEFORE THE COMMITTEE
TODAY.
I THANK YOU FOR YOUR YEARS OF
DEDICATED SERVICES AS A MEMBER
OF THIS BODY, AND YOUR RECENT
LEADERSHIP AT THE DEPARTMENT OF
JUSTICE.
AS I MENTIONED, WHEN DIRECTOR
COMEY APPEARED BEFORE US LAST
WEEK, THIS COMMITTEE'S ROLE IS
TO BE THE EYES AND EARS FOR THE
OTHER 85 MEMBERS OF THE UNITED
STATES SENATE AND FOR THE
AMERICAN PEOPLE, ENSURING THAT
THE INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY IS
OPERATING LAWFULLY, AND HAS THE
NECESSARY TOOLS TO KEEP AMERICA
SAFE.
THE COMMUNITY IS LARGE AND
DIVERSE PLACE.
WE RECOGNIZE THE GRAVITY OF OUR
INVESTIGATION INTO RUSSIA'S
INTERFERENCE IN THE 2016 U.S.
ELECTIONS.
BUT I REMIND OUR CONSTITUENTS
THAT WHILE WE INVESTIGATE
RUSSIA, WE ARE SCRUTINIZING
CIA'S BUDGET, WHILE WE'RE
INVESTIGATING RUSSIA, WE'RE
STILL SCRUTINIZING CIA'S BUDGET,
NSA'S 702 PROGRAM OUR NATION'S
SATELLITE PROGRAM AND THE ENTIRE
IC EFFORT TO RECRUIT AND RETAIN
THE BEST TALENT WE CAN FIND IN
THE WORLD.
MORE OFTEN THAN NOT, THE
COMMITTEE CONDUCTS ITS WORK
BEHIND CLOSED DOORS.
A NECESSARY STEP TO ENSURE THAT
THE MOST NECESSARY SOURCES AND
METHODS ARE PROTECTED.
THE SANCTITY OF THESE SOURCES
AND METHODS ARE AT THE HEART OF
THE INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY'S
ABILITY TO KEEP US SAFE AND TO
KEEP OUR ALLIES SAFE FROM THOSE
WHO SEEK TO HARM US.
I'VE SAID REPEATEDLY THAT I DO
NOT BELIEVE ANY COMMITTEE, THAT
THE COMMITTEE DOES SHOULD BE
DONE IN PUBLIC.
BUT I ALSO RECOGNIZE THE GRAVITY
OF THE COMMITTEE'S CURRENT
INVESTIGATION, AND THE NEED FOR
AMERICAN PEOPLE TO BE PRESENTED
THE FACTS SO THAT THEY MIGHT
MAKE THEIR OWN JUDGMENTS.
IT IS FOR THAT REASON THAT THIS
COMMITTEE HAS NOW HELD ITS
10th OPEN HEARING OF 2017.
MORE THAN DOUBLE THAT OF THE
COMMITTEE IN RECENT YEARS, AND
THE FIFTH ON THE TOPIC EVER
RUSSIAN INTERFERENCE.
- - OF RUSSIAN INTERFERENCE.
ATTORNEY GENERAL SESSIONS THIS
IS YOUR OPPORTUNITY TO SEPARATE
FACT FROM FICTION AND TO SET THE
RECORD STRAIGHT ON A NUMBER OF
ALLEGATIONS REPORTED IN THE
PRESS.
FOR EXAMPLE, THERE ARE SEVERAL
ISSUES THAT I'M HOPEFUL THAT WE
WILL ADDRESS TODAY.
ONE, DID YOU HAVE ANY MEETINGS
WITH RUSSIAN OFFICIALS OR THEIR
PROXIES ON BEHALF OF THE TRUMP
CAMPAIGN OR DURING YOUR TIME AS
ATTORNEY GENERAL?
TWO?
WHAT WAS YOUR INVOLVEMENT WITH
CANDIDATE TRUMP'S FOREIGN POLICY
TEAM AND WHAT WERE THEIR
POSSIBLE INTERACTION HE WITH
RUSSIANS?
THREE, WHY DID YOU DECIDE TO
RECUSE YOURSELF FROM THE
GOVERNMENT'S RUSSIA
INVESTIGATION AND FOURTH, WHAT
ROLE IF ANY DID YOU PLAY IN THE
REMOVAL OF THEN FBI DIRECTOR
COMEY?
I LOOK FORWARD TO A CANDID AND
HONEST DISCUSSION AS WE CONTINUE
TO PURSUE THE TRUTH BEHIND
RUSSIA'S INTERFERENCE IN THE
2016 ELECTIONS.
THE COMMITTEE'S EXPERIENCED
STAFF IS INTERVIEWING THE
RELEVANT PARTIES, HAVING SPOKEN
TO MORE THAN 35 INDIVIDUALS TO
DAYLIGHT.
TO INCLUDE JUST YESTERDAY, AN
INTERVIEW OF FORMER HOMELAND
SECURITY SECRETARY JEH JOHNSON.
AND THE MOST SENSITIVE
INTELLIGENCE IN OUR COUNTRY'S
POSSESSION.
AS I SAID PREVIOUSLY WE WILL
ESTABLISH THE FACTS, SEPARATE
FROM RAMPANT SPECULATION AND LAY
THEM OUT FOR THE AMERICAN PEOPLE
TO MAKE THEIR OWN JUDGMENT.
ONLY THEN WILL WE AS A NATION BE
ABLE TO PUT THIS EPISODE TO REST
AND LOOK TO THE FUTURE.
I'M HOPEFUL THAT MEMBERS WILL
FOCUS THEIR QUESTIONS TODAY ON
THE RUSSIA INVESTIGATION AND NOT
SQUANDER THE OPPORTUNITY BY
STAYING POLITICAL OR PARTISAN
SHOTS.
THE VICE CHAIRMAN AND I CONTINUE
TO LEAD THIS INVESTIGATION
TOGETHER, ON WHAT IS A HIGHLY
CHARGED POLITICAL ISSUE.
WE MAY DISAGREE AT TIMES BUT WE
REMAIN A UNIFIED TEAM WITH A
DEDICATED, FOCUSED AND
PROFESSIONAL STAFF WORKING
TIRELESSLY ON BEHALF OF THE
AMERICAN PEOPLE TO FIND THE
TRUTH.
THE COMMITEE HAS MADE MUCH
PROGRESS AS THE POLITICAL WINDS
BLOW AROUND US, AND THE PUBLIC
WILL AGREES DESPITE A TORRENT OF
DEBATE ON WHO AND WHAT MAY BE
BEST SUITED TO LEAD ON THIS
ISSUE, THE INTELLIGENCE
COMMITTEE HAS LED UP TO ITS
OBLIGATION TO MOVE FORWARD WITH
PURPOSE AND ABOVE POLITICS.
MR. ATTORNEY GENERAL, IT'S GOOD
TO HAVE YOU BACK.
I WOULD NOW TUSH TO THE VICE
CHAIRMAN ON ANY REMARKS HE MIGHT
HAVE.
>> THANK YOU, MR. CHAIRMAN AND I
WANT TO THANK THE WAY WE'RE
PROCEEDING ON THIS
INVESTIGATION.
MR. ATTORNEY GENERAL GOOD TO SEE
YOU AGAIN AND WE APPRECIATE YOUR
APPEARANCE ON THE HEELS OF
MR. COMEY'S REVEALING TESTIMONY
LAST WEEK.
I DO THOUGH WANT TO TAKE A
MOMENT AT THE OUTSET AND FIRST
EXPRESS SOME CONCERN WITH THE
PROCESS BY WHICH WE ARE SEEING
YOU, THE ATTORNEY GENERAL,
TODAY.
IT IS MY UNDERSTANDING THAT YOU
WERE ORIGINALLY SCHEDULED TO
TESTIFY IN FRONT OF THE HOUSE
AND SENATE APPROPRIATIONS
COMMITTEE TODAY.
I KNOW THOSE APPEARANCE HAVE
BEEN CANCELLED TO COME HERE
INSTEAD.
WHILE WE APPRECIATE HIS
TESTIMONY BEFORE OUR COMMITTEE I
BELIEVE AND I SPEAK -- I BELIEVE
I SPEAK FOR MANY OF MY
COLLEAGUES THAT I BELIEVE HE
SHOULD ALSO ANSWER QUESTIONS
FROM MEMBERS OF THOSE COMMITTEES
AND THE JUDICIARY COMMITTEE AS
WELL.
MR. ATTORNEY GENERAL IT IS MY
HOPE THAT YOU WILL RESCHEDULE
THOSE APPEARANCES AS SOON AS
POSSIBLE.
IN ADDITION, I WANT TO SAY AT
THE OUTSET WHILE WE CONSIDER
YOUR APPEARANCE HERE AS THE
BEGINNING OF OUR INTERACTION
BETWEEN YOU AND YOUR DEPARTMENT,
MR. ATTORNEY GENERAL WE ALWAYS
EXPECTED TO TALK TO YOU AS PART
OF OUR INVESTIGATION.
WE BELIEVED IT WOULD BE ACTUALLY
LATER IN THE PROCESS.
WE'RE GLAD TO ACCOMMODATE YOUR
REQUEST TO SPEAK TO US TODAY.
BUT WE ALSO EXPECT TO HAVE YOUR
COMMITMENT TO COOPERATE WITH ALL
FUTURE REQUESTS AND MAKE
YOURSELF AVAILABLE AS NECESSARY
TO THIS COMMITTEE FOR, AS THE
CHAIRMAN HAS INDICATED THIS VERY
IMPORTANT INVESTIGATION.
NOW LET'S MOVE TO THE SUBJECT OF
TODAY'S DISCUSSION.
LET'S START WITH THE CAMPAIGN.
YOU WERE AN EARLY AND ARDENT
SUPPORTER OF MR. TRUMP.
AS MARCH YOU WERE NAMED AS
CHAIRMAN OF MR. TRUMP'S NATIONAL
SECURITY ADVISORY COMMITTEE.
YOU WERE MUCH MORE THAN A
SURROGATE, YOU WERE AN ADVISOR
THAT HELPED SHAPE THE NATIONAL
SECURITY STRATEGY.
NO DOUBT YOU WILL HAVE KEY
INSIGHTS ABOUT SOME OF THE KEY
TRUMP ASSOCIATES THAT WE'RE
SEEKING TO HEAR FROM IN THE
WEEKS AHEAD. QUESTIONS
HAVE ALSO BEEN RAVED RAISED
ABOUT SOME YOUR OWN INTERACTIONS
WITH RUSSIAN OFFICIALS DURING
THE CAMPAIGN.
DURING THE CAMPAIGN IN JANUARY
YOU SAID, QUOTE YOU DID NOT HAVE
COMMUNICATIONS WITH RUSSIANS,
SENATOR LEAHY ASKED YOU IF YOU
WERE IN CONTACT WITH THE RUSSIAN
GOVERNMENT, YOU ANSWERED A
DEFINITIVE NO.
DESPITE THAT THE FACT IS AS WE
DISCOVERED LATER THAT YOU DID
HAVE INTERACTIONS WITH RUSSIAN
GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS DURING THE
COURSE OF THE CAMPAIGN.
IN MARCH YOU ACKNOWLEDGED TWO
MEETINGS WITH THE RUSSIAN
AMBASSADOR YET THERE'S ALSO BEEN
SOME PUBLIC REPORTS OF A
POSSIBLE THIRD MEETING AT THE
MAYFLOWER HOTEL ON MAIZE 27th.
I HOPE TODAY YOU WILL HELP CLEAR
UP THOSE DISCREPANCIES.
WE HOPE THIS IS VERY IMPORTANT
YOU WILL BE WILLING TO PROVIDE
THE COMMITTEE WITH ANY DOCUMENTS
WE WOULD NEED TO SHED LIGHT ON
THIS ISSUE SUCH AS E-MAILS OR
CALENDAR.
THEN THERE'S TOP OF THE FIERKS
OF FORMER FBI DIRECTOR COMEY.
LAST WEEK WE RECEIVED TESTIMONY
FROM MR. COMEY UNDER OATH, HE
YOINLTED HIS VERY -- OUTLINED
HIS VERY TROUBLING INTERACTIONS
WITH THE PRESIDENT AS WELL AS
THE CIRCUMSTANCES OF HIS FIRING.
A PHI DISTURBING POINTS STOOD --
A FEW DISTURBING POINTS STOOD
OUT.
FIRST MR. COMEY WHO HAS DECADES
OF EXPERIENCE AT THE DEPARTMENT
OF JUSTICE AND AT THE FBI
SERVING UNDER PRESIDENTS OF BOTH
PARTIES, WAS SO UNNERVED BY THE
ACTIONS OF THE PRESIDENT THAT HE
FELT, QUOTE, COMPELLED
TOFULLY TO FULLYDOCUMENT
EVERY INTERACTION THEY
HAD.
MR. COMEY SAT WHERE YOU ARE
SITTING TODAY AND SAID THAT HE
WAS CONCERNED THAT THE PRESIDENT
OF THE UNITED STATES MIGHT LIE
ABOUT THE NATURE OF THEIR
MEETINGS.
THAT'S A SHOCKING STATEMENT FROM
ONE OF OUR NATION'S TOP LAW
ENFORCEMENT OFFICIALS.
WE ALSO HEARD THAT DIRECTOR
COMEY TOOK IT AS A DIRECTION
FROM THE PRESIDENT THAT HE WAS
TO DROP THE FBI'S INVESTIGATION
INTO FORMER NATIONAL SECURITY
ADVISOR GENERAL MIKE FLYNN.
FINALLY WE HEARD FROM MR. COMEY
THAT HE BELIEVES HE WAS FIRED
OVER HIS HANDLING OF THE RUSSIA
INVESTIGATION.
THE PRESIDENT HIMSELF CONFIRMED
THIS IN STATEMENTS TO THE MEDIA.
THIS IS DEEPLY TROUBLING, FOR
ALL OF US, WHO BELIEVE ON BOTH
SIDES OF THE AISLE IN PRESERVING
THE INDEPENDENCE OF THE FBI.
WE HAVE A LOT OF WORK IN ORDER
TO FOLLOW UP ON THESE ALARMING
DISCLOSURES.
MR. ATTORNEY GENERAL, YOUR
TESTIMONY TODAY IS AN
OPPORTUNITY TO BEGIN THE PROCESS
OF ASKING THOSE QUESTIONS.
FOR INSTANCE, AGAIN, I KNOW
OTHERS WILL ASK ABOUT THIS, YOU
RECUSED YOURSELF FROM THE
RUSSIAN INVESTIGATION, YET YOU
PARTICIPATED IN THE COMEY FIRING
OVER THE HANDLING OF THAT VERY
INVESTIGATION.
WE WANT TO KNOW HOW YOU COMPLIED
FULLY AND IN ADDITION WE HEARD
FROM MR. COMEY LAST WEEKLY THAT
THE PRESIDENT ASKED YOU TO LEAVE
THE OVAL OFFICE SO HE COULD
SPEAK ONE ON ONE WITH MR. COMEY.
AGAIN, A VERY CONCERNING ACTION.
WE WILL NEED TO HEAR FROM YOU
ABOUT HOW YOU REVIEWED -- HOW
YOU VIEWED THE PRESIDENT'S
REQUEST AND WHETHER YOU THOUGHT
IT WAS APPROPRIATE.
WE'LL ALSO WANT TO KNOW IF YOU
ARE AWARE OF ANY ATTEMPTS BY THE
PRESIDENT TO ENLIST LEADERS IN
THE INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY TO
UNDERMINE THIS VERY SAME RUSSIA
INVESTIGATION.
MOST IMPORTANTLY, OUR COMMITTEE
WILL WANT TO HEAR WHAT YOU ARE
DOING TO ENSURE THAT THE RUSSIAN
HE OR ANY OTHER FOREIGN
ADVERSARIES CANNOT ATTACK OUR
DEMOCRATIC PROCESS LIKE THIS
EVER AGAIN.
I'M CONCERNED THAT THE PRESIDENT
STILL DOES NOT RECOGNIZE THE
SEVERITY OF THE THREAT.
HE TO DATE I BELIEVE HAS NOT
EVEN ACKNOWLEDGED THE UNANIMOUS
CONCLUSIONS OF THE U.S.
INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY THAT
RUSSIA MASSIVELY INTERVENED IN
OUR ELECTIONS.
THE THREAT WE FACE IS REAL.
AND IT'S NOT LIMITED TO US.
THE RECENT EVENTS IN FRANCE ARE
AGAIN A STORK REMINDER THAT ALL
WESTERN DEMOCRACIES MUST TAKE
STEPS TO PROTECT THEMSELVES.
I BELIEVE THE UNITED STATES CAN
AND MUST BE A LEADER IN THIS
EFFORT.
BUT ALL REQUIRE OUR
ADMINISTRATION TO GET SERIOUS
ABOUT THIS MATTER.
FINALLY IN THE PAST SEVERAL
WEEKS WE'VE SEEN A CONCERNING
PATTERN OF ADMINISTRATION
OFFICIALS REFUSING TO ANSWER
PUBLIC UNCLASSIFIED QUESTIONS,
ABOUT ALLEGATIONS ABOUT THE
PRESIDENT IN THIS INVESTIGATION.
WE HAD A HEARING WITH THIS
SUBJECT LAST WEEK.
I WANT TO COMMEND THE CHAIRMAN
WHO, AT THE END OF THAT HEARING,
MADE VERY CLEAR THAT OUR
WITNESSES, IT WAS NOT ACCEPTABLE
FOR OUR WITNESSES TO COME BEFORE
CONGRESS WITHOUT ANSWERS.
THE AMERICAN PEOPLE DESERVE TO
KNOW WHAT'S GOING ON HERE.
THANK YOU, MR. CHAIRMAN, I LOOK
FORWARD TO THE WITNESS'S
TESTIMONY.
>> THANK YOU, VICE CHAIRMAN.
ATTORNEY GENERAL SESSIONS IF YOU
WOULD STAND I WOULD ADMINISTER
THE OATH TO YOU.
RAISE YOUR RIGHT HAND IF YOU
WOULD PLEASE, DO YOU SOLEMNLY
SWEAR TO TELL THE TRUTH, THE
WHOLE TRUTH AND NOTHING BUT THE
TRUTH SO HELP YOU GOD?
>> I DO.
>> YOU MAY BE SEATED.
THANK YOU, ATTORNEY GENERAL
SESSIONS.
THE FLOOR IS YOURS.
>> THANK YOU VERY MUCH, CHAIRMAN
BURR AND VICE CHAIR WARNER FOR
ALLOWING ME TO APPEAR BEFORE THE
COMMITTEE TODAY.
I APPRECIATE THE COMMITTEE'S
CRITICALLY IMPORTANT EFFORTS TO
INVESTIGATE RUSSIAN INTERFERENCE
WITH OUR DEMOCRATIC PROCESS.
SUCH INTERFERENCE CAN NEVER BE
TOLERATED AND I ENCOURAGE ANY
EFFORTS TO GET TO THE BOTTOM OF
ANY SUCH ALLEGATIONS.
AS YOU KNOW THE DEPUTY ATTORNEY
GENERAL HAS APPOINTED A SPECIAL
COUNSEL TO INVESTIGATE THE
MATTERS RELATED TO THE RUSSIAN
INTERFERENCE IN THE 2016
ELECTION.
I'M HERE TODAY TO ADDRESS
SEVERAL ISSUES THAT HAVE BEEN
SPECIFICALLY RAISED BEFORE THIS
COMMITTEE.
AND I APPRECIATE THE OPPORTUNITY
TO RESPOND TO QUESTIONS AS FULLY
AS THE LORD ENABLES ME TO DO SO.
BUT AS I ADVISE YOU,
MR. CHAIRMAN AND CONSISTENT WITH
LONG STANDING DEPARTMENT OF
JUSTICE PRACTICE, I CANNOT AND
WILL NOT VIOLATE MY DUTY TO
PROTECT THE CONFIDENTIAL
COMMUNICATIONS I HAVE WITH THE
PRESIDENT.
NOW LET ME ADDRESS SOME ISSUES
DIRECTLY.
I DID NOT HAVE ANY PRIVATE
MEETINGS, NOR DO I RECALL ANY
CONVERSATIONS WITH ANY RUSSIAN
OFFICIALS AT THE MAYFLOWER
HOTEL.
I DID NOT ATTEND ANY MEETINGS AT
THAT EVENT SEPARATE, PRIOR TO
THE SPEECH I ATTENDED BY THE
PRESIDENT, TODAY, I ATTENDED A
RECEPTION WITH MY STAFF THAT
INCLUDED AT LEAST TWO DOZEN
PEOPLE AND PRESIDENT TRUMP.
THOUGH I DO RECALL SEVERAL
CONVERSATIONS THAT I HAD DURING
THAT PRE-SPEECH RECEPTION, I DO
NOT HAVE ANY RECOLLECTION OF
MEETING OR TALKING TO THE
RUSSIAN AMBASSADOR OR ANY OTHER
RUSSIAN OFFICIALS.
IF ANY BRIEF INTERACTION
OCCURRED IN PASSING WITH THE
RUSSIAN AMBASSADOR DURING THAT
RECEPTION, I DO NOT REMEMBER IT.
AFTER THE SPEECH I WAS
INTERVIEWED BY THE NEWS MEDIA,
THERE WAS AN AREA FOR THAT.
IN A DIFFERENT ROOM.
AND THEN I LEFT THE HOTEL.
BUT WHETHER I EVER ATTENDED A
EXCEPTION WHERE THE RUSSIAN
AMBASSADOR WAS ALSO PRESENT IS
ENTIRETY BESIDE THE POINT OF
THIS INVESTIGATION INTO RUSSIAN
INTERFERENCE IN THE 2016
CAMPAIGN.
LET ME STATE THIS CLEARLY,
COLLEAGUES: I HAVE NEVER MET
WITH OR HAD ANY CONVERSATION
WITH ANY RUSSIANS OR ANY FOREIGN
OFFICIALS CONCERNING ANY TYPE OF
INTERFERENCE WITH ANY CAMPAIGN
OR ELECTION IN THE UNITED
STATES.
FURTHER, I HAVE NO KNOWLEDGE OF
ANY SUCH CONVERSATIONS BY ANYONE
CONNECTED TO THE TRUMP CAMPAIGN.
I WAS YOUR COLLEAGUE IN THIS
BODY FOR 20 YEARS, AT LEAST SOME
OF YOU.
AND I -- AND THE SUGGEST THAT I
PARTICIPATED IN ANY CONCLUSION
THAT I WAS AWARE OF ANY
CONCLUSION WITH THE RUSSIAN
GOVERNMENT, TO HURT THIS
COUNTRY, WHICH I HAVE SERVED
WITH HONOR FOR 35 YEARS, OR TO
UNDERMINE THE INTEGRITY OF OUR
DEMOCRATIC PROCESS, IS AN
APPALLING AND DETESTABLE LIE.
RELATHEED -- RELATEDLY, THERE IS
AN ASSERTION THAT I DID NOT
ANSWER SENATOR FRANKEN'S
QUESTION.
COLLEAGUES, THAT IS FALSE.
I CAN'T SAY COLLEAGUES, I'M NO
LONGER A PART OF THIS BODY BUT
FORMER COLLEAGUES, THAT IS
FALSE.
THIS IS WHAT HAPPENED.
SENATOR FRANKEN ASKED ME A
RAMBLING QUESTION AFTER SOME SIX
HOURS OF TESTIMONY THAT INCLUDED
DRAMATIC NEW ALLEGATIONS THAT
THE UNITED STATES INTELLIGENCE
COMMUNITY, THE U.S. INTELLIGENCE
COMMUNITY, HAD ADVISED PRESIDENT
ELECT TRUMP, QUOTE, THAT THERE
WAS A CONTINUING EXCHANGE OF
INFORMATION DURING THE CAMPAIGN
BETWEEN TRUMP'S SURROGATES AND
INTERMEDIARIES FOR THE RUSSIAN
GOVERNMENT.
CLOSE QUOTE.
I WAS TAKEN ABACK BY THAT
EXPLOSIVE ALLEGATION.
WHICH HE SAID WAS BEING REPORTED
AS BREAKING NEWS THAT VERY DAY.
AND WHICH I HAD NOT HEARD.
I WANTED TO REFUTE THAT,
IMMEDIATELY.
ANY SUGGESTION THAT I WAS PART
OF SUCH AN ACTIVITY, I APPLIED,
QUOTE, I APPLIED TO SENATOR
FRANKEN THIS WAY, I REPLIED THIS
WAY.
SENATOR FRANKEN I'M NOT AWARE OF
ANY OF THOSE ACTIVITIES.
I HAVE BEEN CALLED A SURROGATE A
TIME OR WOULD IN THAT CAMPAIGN
AND I DID NOT HAVE
COMMUNICATIONS WITH THE RUSSIAN
AND I'M UNABLE TO COMMENT ON IT.
CLOAT QUOTE.
CLOSE QUOTE.
THAT WAS THE CONTEXT IN WHICH I
WAS ASKED THE QUESTION AND IN
THAT CONTEXT MY ANSWER WAS A
FAIR AND CORRECT RESPONSE TO THE
CHARGE AS I UNDERSTOOD IT.
I WAS RESPONDING TO THIS
ALLEGATION THAT WE HAD MET --
SURROGATES HAD BEEN MEETING WITH
THE RUSSIANS ON A REGULAR BASIS.
IT SIMPLY DID NOT OCCUR TO ME
THAN GO FURTHER THAN THE CONTEXT
OF THE QUESTION AND TO LIST ANY
CONVERSATIONS THAT I MAY HAVE
HAD WITH RUSSIANS IN ROUTINE
SITUATIONS, AS I HAD HAD MANY
ROUTINE SITUATIONS -- MEETINGS
WITH OTHER FOREIGN OFFICIALS.
SO PLEASE HEAR ME NOW.
AND IT WAS ONLY IN MARCH, AFTER
MY CONFIRMATION HEARING, THAT A
REPORTER ASKED MY SPOKESPERSON
WHETHER I HAD EVER MET WITH ANY
RUSSIAN OFFICIALS.
THIS WAS THE FIRST TIME THAT
QUESTION HAD SQUARELY BEEN POSED
TO ME.
ON THE SAME DAY WE PROVIDED THAT
REPORTER WITH THE INFORMATION
RELATED TO THE MEETING THAT I
AND MY STAFF HAD HELD IN MY
SENATE OFFICE WITH AMBASSADOR
KISLYAK, AS WELL AS THE BRIEF
ENCOUNTER IN JULY AFTER A BRIEF
SPEECH I HAD GIVEN IN CLEVELAND,
OHIO.
I ALSO PROVIDED THE REPORTER
WITH A LIST OF 25 FOREIGN
AMBASSADOR MEETINGS THAT I'D HAD
DURING 2016.
IN ADDITION, I PROVIDED
SUPPLEMENTAL TESTIMONY TO THE
SENATE JUDICIARY COMMITTEE TO
EXPLAIN THIS EVENT.
SO I READILY ACKNOWLEDGE THESE
TWO MEETINGS AND CERTAINLY NOT
ONE THING HAPPENED THAT WAS
IMPROPER IN ANY ONE OF THOSE
MEETINGS.
LET ME ALSO EXPLAIN CLEARLY THE
CIRCUMSTANCES OF MY RECUSAL FROM
THE INVESTIGATION INTO THE
RUSSIAN INTERFERENCE WITH THE
2016 ELECTION.
PLEASE, COLLEAGUES, HEAR ME ON
THIS.
I WAS SWORN IN AS ATTORNEY
GENERAL ON THURSDAY, FEBRUARY
9th.
THE VERY NEXT DAY, AS I HAD
PROMISED TO THE JUDICIARY
COMMITTEE I WOULD DO, AT LEAST
AT AN EARLY DATE, I MET WITH
CAREER DEPARTMENT OFFICIALS
INCLUDING A SENIOR ETHICS
OFFICIAL, TO DISCUSS SOME THINGS
PUBLICLY REPORTED IN THE PRESS
THAT MIGHT HAVE SOME BEARING ON
WHETHER OR NOT I SHOULD RECUSE
MYSELF IN THIS CASE.
FROM THAT POINT, FEBRUARY
10th, UNTIL I ANNOUNCED MY
FORMAL RECUSAL ON MARCH 2nd, I
WAS NEVER BRIEFED ON ANY
INVESTIGATIVE DETAILS, DID NOT
ACCESS ANY INFORMATION ABOUT THE
INVESTIGATION.
I RECEIVED ONLY THE LIMITED
INFORMATION THAT THE
DEPARTMENT'S CAREER OFFICIALS
DETERMINED WAS NECESSARY FOR ME
TO FORMAT AND MAKE A RECUSAL
DECISION.
AS SUCH, I HAVE NO KNOWLEDGE
ABOUT THIS INVESTIGATION, AS IT
IS ONGOING TODAY, BEYOND WHAT
HAS BEEN PUBLICLY REPORTED.
I DON'T EVEN READ THAT
CAREFULLY.
AND I HAVE TAKEN NO ACTION
WHATSOEVER WITH REGARD TO ANY
SUCH INVESTIGATION.
ON THE DATE OF MY FORMAL RECUSAL
MY CHIEF OF STAFF SENT AN E-MAIL
TO THE HEADS OF RELEVANT
DEPARTMENTS, INCLUDING BY NAME
TO DIRECTOR COMEY OF THE FBI, TO
INSTRUCT THEM TO INFORM THEIR
STAFFS OF THIS RECUSAL AND TO
ADVISE THEM NOT TO BRIEF ME OR
INVOLVE ME IN ANY WAY IN ANY
SUCH MATTERS.
AND IN FACT THEY HAVE NOT.
IMPORTANTLY: I RECUSED MYSELF
NOT BECAUSE OF ANY ASSERTED
WRONGDOING, OR ANY BELIEF THAT I
MAY HAVE BEEN INVOLVED IN ANY
WRONGDOING IN THE CAMPAIGN, BUT
BECAUSE A DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
REGULATION, 28 CFR 45.2, I FELT
REQUIRED IT.
THAT REGULATION STATES IN EFFECT
THAT DEPARTMENT EMPLOYEES SHOULD
NOT PARTICIPATE IN
INVESTIGATIONS OF A CAMPAIGN IF
THEY SERVED AS A CAMPAIGN
ADVISOR.
SO THE SCOPE OF MY RECUSAL,
HOWEVER, DOES NOT AND CANNOT
INTERFERE WITH MY ABILITY TO
OVERSEE THE DEPARTMENT OF
JUSTICE, INCLUDING THE FBI,
WHICH HAS AN $8 BILLION BUDGET,
AND 35,000 EMPLOYEES.
I PRESENTED TO THE PRESIDENT MY
CONCERNS, AND THOSE OF DEPUTY
ATTORNEY GENERAL ROD ROSENSTEIN
ABOUT THE ONGOING LEADERSHIP
ISSUES AT THE FBI AS STATED IN
MY LETTER RECOMMENDING THE
REMOVAL OF MR. COMEY, ALONG WITH
THE DEPUTY ATTORNEY GENERAL'S
MEMORANDUM ON THAT ISSUE WHICH
HAD BEEN RELEASED PUBLICLY BY
THE WHITE HOUSE, THOSE REPRESENT
A CLEAR STATEMENT OF MY VIEWS.
I ADOPTED DEPUTY ATTORNEY
GENERAL ROSENSTEIN'S POSITIONS.
IT IS
RENDER THE ATTORNEY
GENERAL UNABLE TO MANAGE THE
LEADERSHIP OF THE VARIOUS
DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICER LAW
ENFORCEMENT COMPONENTS THAT
CONDUCTION THOUSANDS OF
INVESTIGATIONS.
FINALLY, DURING HIS TESTIMONY,
MR. COMEY DISCUSSED A
CONVERSATION THAT HE AND I HAD
ABOUT THE MEETING MR. COMEY HAD
WITH THE PRESIDENT.
I'M HAPPY TO SHARE WITH THE
COMMITTEE MY RECOLLECTION OF
THAT CONVERSATION THAT I HAD
WITH MR. COMEY.
FOLLOWING A ROUTINE MORNING
THREAT BRIEFING, MR. COMEY SPOKE
TO ME AND MY CHIEF OF STAFF.
WHILE HE DID NOT PROVIDE ME WITH
ANY OF THE SUBSTANCE OF HIS
CONVERSATION WITH THE PRESIDENT,
APPARENTLY THE DAY BEFORE,
MR. COMEY EXPRESSED CONCERN
ABOUT PROPER COMMUNICATIONS
PROTOCOL WITH THE WHITE HOUSE,
AND WITH THE PRESIDENT.
I RESPONDED, HE DIDN'T RECALL
THIS, BUT I RESPONDED TO HIS
COMMENT, BY AGREEING THAT THE
FBI AND THE DEPARTMENT OF
JUSTICE NEEDED TO BE CAREFUL TO
FOLLOW DEPARTMENT POLICIES
REGARDING APPROPRIATE CONTACTS
WITH THE WHITE HOUSE.
MR. COMEY HAD SERVED IN THE
DEPARTMENT FOR BETTER THAN TWO
DECADES AND I WAS CONFIDENT THAT
HE UNDERSTOOD AND WOULD ABIDE BY
THE WELL-ESTABLISHED RULES
LIMITING COMMUNICATIONS WITH THE
WHITE HOUSE, ESPECIALLY ABOUT
ONGOING INVESTIGATIONS.
THAT'S WHAT'S SO IMPORTANT TO
CONTROL.
MY COMMENTS ENCOURAGED HIM TO DO
JUST THAT, AND INDEED AS I
UNDERSTAND IT, HE DID IN FACT
DID THAT.
OUR DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE RULES
ON PROPER COMMUNICATIONS BETWEEN
THE DEPARTMENT AND THE WHITE
HOUSE HAVE BEEN IN PLACE FOR
YEARS.
MR. COMEY WELL KNEW THEM.
I THOUGHT AND ASSUMED CORRECTLY
THAT HE COMPLIED WITH THEM.
SO I'LL FINISH WITH THIS: I
RECUSED MYSELF FROM ANY
INVESTIGATION INTO THE CAMPAIGN
FOR PRESIDENT, BUT I DID NOT
RECUSE MYSELF FROM DEFENDING MY
HONOR AGAINST SCURRILOUS AND
FALSE ALLEGATIONS.
AT ALL TIMES THROUGHOUT THE
COURSE OF THE CAMPAIGN, THE
CONFIRMATION PROCESS, AND SINCE
BECOMING ATTORNEY GENERAL, I
HAVE DEDICATED MYSELF TO THE
HIGHEST STANDARDS.
I'VE EARNED A REPUTATION FOR
THAT.
AT HOME AND IN THIS BODY, I
BELIEVE, OVER DECADES OF
PERFORMANCE.
THE PEOPLE OF THIS COUNTRY
EXPECT AN HONEST AND TRANSPARENT
GOVERNMENT, AND THAT'S WHAT
WE'RE GIVING THEM.
THIS PRESIDENT WANTS TO FOCUS ON
THE PEOPLE OF THIS COUNTRY TO
ENSURE THEY ARE TREATED FAIRLY,
AND KEPT SAFE.
THE TRUMP AGENDA IS TO IMPROVE
THE LIVES OF THE AMERICAN
PEOPLE.
I KNOW SOME HAVE DIFFERENT WAYS
OF ACHIEVING THIS AND DIFFERENT
AGENDAS, BUT THAT IS HIS AGENDA
AND IT'S ONE I SHARE.
IMPORTANTLY, AS ATTORNEY
GENERAL, I HAVE A RESPONSIBILITY
TO ENFORCE THE LAWS OF THIS
NATION, TO PROTECT THIS COUNTRY
FROM ITS ENEMIES, AND TO ENSURE
THE FAIR ADMINISTRATION OF
JUSTICE, AND I INTEND TO WORK
EVERY DAY WITH OUR FINE TEAM,
AND THE SUPERB PROFESSIONALS IN
THE DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE TO
ADVANCE THE IMPORTANT WORK WE
HAVE TO DO.
THESE FALSE ATTACKS, THE
INNUENDOS, THE LEAKS, YOU CAN BE
SURE, WILL NOT INTIMIDATE ME, IN
FACT THESE EVENTS HAVE ONLY
STRENGTHENED MY RESOLVE TO
FULFILL MY DUTY, MY DUTY TO
REDUCE CRIME, TO SUPPORT OUR
FEDERAL, STATE AND LOCAL LAW
ENFORCEMENT OFFICERS WHO WORK ON
OUR STREETS EVERY DAY.
JUST LAST WEEK, IT WAS REPORTED
THAT OVERDOSE DEATH IN THIS
COUNTRY ARE RISING FASTER THAN
EVER RECORDED.
LAST YEAR WAS 52,000.
THE NEW YORK TIMES JUST
ESTIMATED NEXT YEAR WILL BE
62,000 OVERDOSE DEATHS.
IS THE MURDER RATE IS UP OVER
10%.
THE LAWYERS INCREASE SINCE 1968,
TOGETHER, WE ARE TELLING THE
GANGS, THE CARTELS, THE
FRAUDSTERS AND THE TERRORISTS,
WE ARE COMING AFTER YOU.
EVERY ONE OF OUR CITIZENS.
NO MATTER WHO THEY ARE OR WHERE
THEY LIVE, HAS THE RIGHT TO BE
SAFE IN THEIR HOMES AND
COMMUNITIES.
AND I WILL NOT BE DETERRED, I
WILL NOT ALLOW THIS GREAT
DEPARTMENT TO BE DETERRED FROM
ITS VITAL MISSION.
THANK YOU, MR. CHAIRMAN, RANKING
MEMBER WARNER, I HAVE A GREAT
HONOR TO APPEAR BEFORE YOU
TODAY.
AND I WILL DO MY BEST TO ANSWER
YOUR QUESTIONS.
>> GENERAL SESSIONS, THANK YOU.
THANK YOU FOR THAT TESTIMONY.
I'D LIKE TO NOTE FOR MEMBERS,
THE CHAIR AND THE VICE CHAIRMAN
WILL BE RECOGNIZED FOR TEN
MINUTES.
MEMBERS WILL BE RECOGNIZED FOR
FIVE MINUTES.
AND I'D LIKE TO REMIND OUR
MEMBERS THAT WE ARE IN OPEN
SESSION.
NO REFERENCES TO CLASSIFIED OR
COMMITTEE-SENSITIVE MATERIALS
SHOULD BE USED RELATIVE TO YOUR
QUESTIONS.
WITH THAT I RECOGNIZE MYSELF AT
THIS TIME FOR TEN MINUTES.
GENERAL SESSIONS, YOU TALKED
ABOUT THE MAYFLOWER HOTEL WHERE
THE PRESIDENT GAVE HIS FIRST
FOREIGN POLICY SPEECH AND IT'S
BEEN COVERED IN THE PRESS THAT
THE PRESIDENT WAS THERE, YOU
WERE THERE, OTHERS WERE THERE.
FROM YOUR TESTIMONY, YOU SAID
YOU DON'T REMEMBER WHETHER
AMBASSADOR KISLYAK WAS THERE,
THE REDUCTION AMBASSADOR, IS
THAT CORRECT -- THE RUSSIAN
AMBASSADOR, IS THAT CORRECT?
>> I DID NOT REMEMBER THAT BUT I
UNDERSTAND HE WAS THERE.
AND SO I DON'T DOUBT THAT HE
WAS.
I BELIEVE THAT REPRESENTATION IS
ARE CORRECT.
IN FACT I RECENTLY SAW A VIDEO
OF HIM COMING INTO THE ROOM.
>> BUT YOU NEVER REMEMBER HAVING
A CONVERSATION OR A MEETING WITH
AMBASSADOR KISLYAK?
>> I DO NOT.
>> AND IN THAT EVENT, WAS THERE
EVER A PRIVATE ROOM SETTING THAT
YOU WERE INVOLVED IN?
>> NO.
OTHER THAN THE RECEPTION AREA.
THAT WAS SHUT OFF FROM I GUESS
THE MAIN CROWD OF A COUPLE
DOZEN, TWO TO THREE DOZEN
PEOPLE.
>> I WOULD TAKE FOR GRANTED THAT
IN AN EVENT LIKE THIS THE
PRESIDENT SHOOK SOME HANDS.
>> YES, HE CAME IN AND SHOOK
HANDS IN THE GROUP.
>> YOU MENTIONED THERE WERE SOME
STAFF THAT WERE WITH YOU AT THAT
EVENT.
>> MY LEGISLATIVE DIRECTOR AT
THE TIME --
>> YOUR SENATE STAFF?
>> SENATE LEGISLATIVE DIRECTOR
WHO WAS A RETIRED U.S. ARMY
COLONEL HAD SERVED ON THE ARMED
SERVICE STAFF.
SENATOR JOHN WARNER BEFORE SHE
JOINED MY STAFF WAS WITH ME IN
THE RECEPTION AREA AND
THROUGHOUT THE REST OF THE
EVENTS.
>> WOULD YOU SAY THAT YOU WERE
THERE AS A UNITED STATES
SENATOR, OR AS A SURROGATE OF
THE CAMPAIGN FOR THIS EVENT?
>> I CAME THERE AS AN INTERESTED
PERSON, VERY ANXIOUS TO SEE HOW
PRESIDENT TRUMP WOULD DO IN HIS
FIRST MAJOR FOREIGN POLICY
ADDRESS.
I BELIEVE HE'D ONLY GIVEN ONE
MAJOR SPEECH BEFORE, THAT WAS
MAYBE AT THE JEWISH APAC EVENT,
IT WAS A TIME FOR ME TO OSH HIS
DELIVERY AND THE PRESENTATION HE
MADE, THAT WAS MY MAIN PURPOSE
FOR BEING THERE.
>> YOU REPORTED TWO OTHER
MEETINGS WITH AMBASSADOR
KISLYAK, ONE IN JULY AND ONE IN
SEPTEMBER IN YOUR SENATE OFFICE.
HAVE YOU HAD ANY OTHER
INTERACTIONS WITH GOVERNMENT
OFFICIALS OVER THE YEAR IN A
CAMPAIGN CAPACITY?
I'M NOT ASKING YOU FROM THE
STANDPOINT OF YOUR SENATE LIFE
BUT IN THE CAMPAIGN CAPACITY.
>> NO, MR. CHAIRMAN, I'VE
STRESHED -- STRETCHED MY RACKED
MY BRAIN TO MAKE SURE I COULD
ANSWER THAT CORRECTLY AND I DID
NOT.
I WOULD JUST OFFER FOR YOU THAT
WHEN ASKED ABOUT WHETHER I HAD
HAD ANY MEETINGS WITH RUSSIANS
BY THE REPORTER IN MARCH, WE
IMMEDIATELY RECALLED THE
CONVERSATION, THE ENCOUNTER I
HAD AT THE CONVENTION, AND THE
MEETING IN MY OFFICE, AND MADE
THAT PUBLIC.
I NEVER INTENDED NOT TO INCLUDE
THAT.
I WOULD HAVE GLADLY HAVE
REPORTED THE MEETING, THE
ENCOUNTER THAT MAY HAVE
OCCURRED, THAT SOME SAY OCCURRED
IN THE MAYFLOWER IF I HAD
REMEMBERED IT OR IF IT ACTUALLY
OCCURRED WHICH I DON'T REMEMBER
THAT IT DID.
>> GENERAL SESSIONS ON MARCH
2nd, 2017 YOU FORMALLY RECUSED
YOURSELF ON THE RUSSIAN
INVESTIGATION BY THE DEPARTMENT
OF JUSTICE.
WHAT WAS THE SPECIFIC REASON
THAT YOU RECUSED YOURSELF?
>> THE SPECIFIC REASON
MR. CHAIRMAN WAS THE CFR CODE OF
FEDERAL REGULATIONS PUT OUT BY
THE DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE, PART
OF THE DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
RULES, AND IT SAYS THIS, I'LL
READ FROM IT.
28 CFR 45.2.
UNLESS AUTHORIZED, NO EMPLOYEE
SHALL PARTICIPATE IN A CRIMINAL
INVESTIGATION OR PROSECUTION IF
HE HAS A PERSONAL OR POLITICAL
RELATIONSHIP WITH ANY PERSON
INVOLVED IN THE CONDUCT OF AN
INVESTIGATION.
IT GOES ON TO SAY FOR
POLITICAL -- IN A POLITICAL
CAMPAIGN, AND IT SAYS IF YOU
HAVE A CLOSE IDENTIFICATION WITH
AN ELECTED OFFICIAL, OR
CANDIDATE, ARISING FROM SERVICE
AS A PRINCIPAL ADVISOR, YOU
SHOULD NOT -- YOU SHOULD NOT
PARTICIPATE IN AN INVESTIGATION
OF THAT CAMPAIGN.
SO MANY HAVE SUGGESTED THAT MY
RECUSAL IS BECAUSE I FELT I WAS
A SUBJECT OF THE INVESTIGATION
MYSELF.
THAT I MAY HAVE DONE SOMETHING
WRONG.
BUT THIS IS THE REASON I RECUSED
MYSELF.
I FELT I WAS REQUIRED TO UNDER
THE RULES OF THE DEPARTMENT OF
JUSTICE, AND AS A LEADER OF THE
DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE I SHOULD
COMPLY WITH THE RULES OBVIOUSLY.
>> SO DID YOUR LEGAL COUNSEL
BASICALLY KNOW FROM DAY ONE THAT
YOU WOULD HAVE TO RECUSE
YOURSELF BECAUSE OF THE CURRENT
STATUTE?
>> I DO HAVE A TIME LINE OF WHAT
OCCURRED.
I WAS SWORN IN ON THE 9th I
BELIEVE OF FEBRUARY.
I THEN -- ON THE 10th HAD MY
FIRST MEETING TO GENERALLY
DISCUSS THIS ISSUE, WHERE THE
CFR WAS NOT DISCUSSED.
WE HAD SEVERAL OTHER MEETINGS,
AND IT BECAME CLEAR TO ME OVER
TIME THAT I QUALIFIED AS A
SIGNIFICANT -- A PRINCIPAL
ADVISOR-TYPE PERSON TO THE
CAMPAIGN, AND IT WAS THE
APPROPRIATE AND RIGHT THING FOR
ME TO RECUSE MYSELF.
>> SO THIS COULD EXPLAIN
DIRECTOR COMEY'S COMMENTS THAT
HE KNEW THERE WAS A LIKELIHOOD
THAT YOU WERE TO RECUSE YOURSELF
BECAUSE HE WAS FAMILIAR WITH THE
SAME STATUTORY?
>> I THINK PROBABLY -- STATUTE?
>> I THINK PROBABLY SO.
I THINK THE ATTORNEYS IN THE
DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE PROBABLY
COMMUNICATED WITH HIM.
BECAUSE MR. CHAIRMAN, LET ME SAY
THIS TO YOU CLEARLY: IN EFFECT,
AS A MATTER OF FACT, I REACCUSED
RECUSEEDMYSELF THAT DAY.
I NEVER RECEIVED ANY INFORMATION
ABOUT THE CAMPAIGN.
I THOUGHT THERE WAS A PROBLEM
WITH ME SERVE IS AS ATTORNEY
GENERAL OVER THIS ISSUE AND I
THOUGHT I MIGHT HAVE TO RECUSE
MYSELF AND I TOOK THE POSITION
CORRECTLY I BELIEVE, NOT TO
INVOLVE MYSELF IN THE CAMPAIGN
IN ANY WAY AND I DID NOT.
>> YOU MADE REFERENCE TO YOUR
CHIEF OF STAFF SENDING OUT AN
E-MAIL IMMEDIATELY NOTIFYING
INTERNALLY OF YOUR DECISION TO
RECUSE.
WOULD YOU MAKE -- WOULD YOU ASK
YOUR CHIEF OF STAFF TO MAKE THAT
E-MAIL AVAILABLE?
>> I WILL AND I THINK I HAVE IT
WITH ME TODAY.
>> THANK YOU GENERAL SESSIONS.
HAVE YOU HAD ANY CONTACT WITH
MR. MUELLER?
>> I HAVE NOT.
DIRECTOR COMEY INDICATED THAT HE
DID NOT KNOW WHEN I RECUSED
MYSELF OR DIDN'T RECEIVE NOTICE,
ONE OF THOSE E-MAILS WENT TO HIM
BY NAME.
A LOT OF THINGS HAPPEN IN OUR
OFFICES, I'M NOT ACCUSING HIM OF
ANY WRONGDOING BUT IN FACT IT
WAS SENT TO HIM AND TO HIS NAME.
>> GENERAL SESSIONS AS YOU SAID
MR. COMEY TESTIFIED AT LENGTH
BEFORE THE COMMITTEE ABOUT HIS
INTERINTERACTIONS WITH THE
PRESIDENT, HIGHLIGHTING YOUR
PART OF THE SESSION.
YOU HIGHLIGHTED THAT ALL WERE
ASKED EXCEPT MR. COMEY AND HE
HAD A PRIVATE MEETING WITH THE
PRESIDENT AND YOU SAID THAT HE
DID INFORM YOU OF HOW
UNCOMFORTABLE THAT WAS, AND YOUR
RECOMMENDATION WAS THAT THE FBI
AND DOJ NEEDED TO FOLLOW THE
RULES LIMITED FURTHER
CORRESPONDENCE.
DID DIRECTOR COMEY EVER EXPRESS
ADDITIONAL DISCOMFORT WITH
CONVERSATIONS THAT THE PRESIDENT
MIGHT HAVE HAD WITH HIM?
BECAUSE HE HAD TWO ADDITIONAL
MEETINGS AND I THINK A TOTAL OF
SIX PHONE CALLS.
>> THAT IS CORRECT.
THERE'S NOTHING WRONG WITH THE
PRESIDENT HAVING A COMMUNICATION
WITH THE FBI DIRECTOR.
WHAT IS PROBLEMATIC FOR ANY
DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE EMPLOYEE
IS TO TALK TO ANY CABINET
PERSONS OR WHITE HOUSE
OFFICIALS, HIGH OFFICIALS ABOUT
ONGOING INVESTIGATIONS THAT ARE
NOT PROPERLY CLEARED THROUGH THE
TOP LEVELS OF THE DEPARTMENT OF
JUSTICE.
AND SO IT WAS A REGULATION I THY
IS -- I THINK IS HEALTHY, I
THINK WE STRONGLY BELIEVED WE
NEEDED TO RESTORE DISCIPLINE
WITHIN OUR DEPARTMENT TO ADHERE
TO THOSE JUST THOSE KIND OF
RULES PLUS LEAKING RULES THAT
ARE A BIT I THINK LAX AND NEED
TO BE RESTORED.
>> YOU COULDN'T HAVE HAD A
CONVERSATION WITH THE PRESIDENT
ABOUT THE INVESTIGATION BECAUSE
YOU WERE NEVER BRIEFED ON THE
INVESTIGATION?
>> THAT IS CORRECT.
THE -- I DO -- WOULD NOTE THAT
WITH REGARD TO THE PRIVATE
MEETING THAT DIRECTOR COMEY HAD,
BY HIS OWN ADMISSION, I BELIEVE,
THERE ARE AS MANY AS SIX SUCH
MEETINGS.
SEVERAL OF THEM HE HAD WITH
PRESIDENT TRUMP.
I THINK HE HAD TWO WITH
PRESIDENT OBAMA.
SO IT IS NOT IMPROPER PER SE BUT
IT WOULD NOT BE JUSTIFIED FOR A
DEPARTMENT OFFICIAL TO SHARE
INFORMATION ABOUT AN ONGOING
INVESTIGATION WITHOUT PRIOR
REVIEW AND CLEARANCE FROM ABOVE.
>> GENERAL SESSIONS JUST ONE
LAST QUESTION.
YOU WERE THE CHAIR OF THIS
FOREIGN POLICY TEAM FOR TRUMP
CAMPAIGN.
TO THE BEST OF YOUR KNOWLEDGE,
DID THAT TEAM EVER MEET?
>> WE MET A COUPLE OF TIMES,
MAYBE.
SOME OF THE PEOPLE DID.
BUT WE NEVER FUNCTIONED,
FRANKLY, MR. CHAIRMAN, AS A
COHERENT TEAM.
WE HAD VARIOUS MEETINGS --
>> WERE THERE ANY MEMBERS OF
THAT TEAM YOU NEVER MET?
>> YES.
>> OKAY.
VICE CHAIRMAN.
>> THANK YOU, GENERAL SESSIONS.
AS I MENTIONED IN MY OPENING
STATEMENT WE APPRECIATE YOUR
APPEARANCE HERE BUT WE DO SEE
THIS AS THE FIRST STEP.
AND I WOULD JUST LIKE TO GET
YOUR COMMITMENT THAT YOU AGREE
TO MAKE YOURSELF AVAILABLE, AS
THE COMMITTEE NEEDS, IN THE
WEEKS AND MONTHS AHEAD?
>> SENATOR WARNER, I WILL COMMIT
TO APPEAR BEFORE THIS COMMITTEE
AND OTHER COMMITTEES AS
APPROPRIATE.
I DON'T THINK IT'S GOOD POLICY
TO CONTINUALLY BRING CABINET
MEMBERS OR THE ATTORNEY GENERAL
THROUGH MULTIPLE COMMITTEES
GOING OVER THE SAME THINGS OVER
AND OVER AGAIN.
>> THE APPROPRIATIONS COMMITTEE
MAY WANT -- I'M SURE --
>> LET ME ASK ENTHUSE --
>> I JUST GAVE YOU MY ANSWER.
>> LEGALITY ME ASK YOU, BECAUSE
THERE MAY BE QUESTIONS ABOUT
THESE MEETINGS OR NOT, THAT WE
COULD GET ACCESS TO MEMORANDUM
OR YOUR DAY BOOK OR --
>> MR. CHAIRMAN WE WOULD BE GLAD
TO PROVIDE APPROPRIATE RESPONSES
TO YOUR QUESTIONS AND REVIEW
THEM CAREFULLY AND TRY TO BE
RESPONSIVE.
>> YESTERDAY A SPOKESMAN FOR THE
PRESIDENT WAS CONCERNED ABOUT
REMOVING DIRECTOR MUELLER, DO
YOU HAVE CONFIDENCE IN DIRECTOR
MUELLER'S REVIEW OF THESE
MATTERS RESPONSIBLY?
>> AS FAR AS THEIR VALIDITY, I
HAVE KNOWN MR. MUELLER OVER THE
YEARS, HE SERVED 12 YEARS AS FBI
DIRECTOR, I KNEW HIM BEFORE
THAT.
AND I HAVE CONFIDENCE IN
MR. NEURL.
>> YOU HAVE CONFIDENCE HE
COULD --
>> I'M NOT GOING TO DISCUSS ANY
HYPOTHETICALS OR WHAT MAY BE A
FACTUAL SITUATION IN THE FUTURE.
>> I HAVE A SEARS OF QUESTIONS.
DO YOU BELIEVE THE PRESIDENT HAS
CONFIDENCE IN DR. E-DIRECTOR
MUELLER?
>> I DON'T KNOW, I HAVEN'T
TALKED TO HIM ABOUT IT.
>> IF WE COMMIT NOT TO TAKE ANY
DIRECT ACTION THAT WOULD LEAD TO
MR. MUELLER'S FIRING OR
DISMISSAL?
>> THE WAY ITS WORKS SENATOR
WARNER IS THAT THE ACTING
ATTORNEY GENERAL --
>> I'M AWARE --
>> INVESTIGATION --
>> WANT TO GET YOU ON THE RECORD
THAT YOU -- WITH YOUR RECUSAL
YOU WOULD NOT TAKE ANY ACTIONS
TO TRY TO HAVE SPECIAL
INVESTIGATOR MUELLER REMOVED?
>> I WOULDN'T THINK THAT WOULD
BE APPROPRIATE FOR ME TO DO.
>> SIR, I AGREE.
TO YOUR KNOWLEDGE HAVE ANY
DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE OFFICIALS
BEEN INVOLVED WITH CONVERSATIONS
ABOUT ANY POSSIBILITY OF
PRESIDENTIAL PARDONS ABOUT ANY
OF THE INDIVIDUALS INVOLVED WITH
THE RUSSIA INVESTIGATION?
>> MR. CHAIRMAN, I'M NOT ABLE TO
COMMENT ON CONVERSATIONS WITH
HIGH OFFICIALS, WITHIN THE WHITE
HOUSE, THAT WOULD BE A VIOLATION
OF THE COMMUNICATIONS RULE THAT
I HAVE TO --
>> IS THAT -- JUST SO I CAN
UNDERSTAND IS THE BASIS OF THAT
UNWILLINGNESS TO ANSWER BASED ON
EXECUTIVE PRIVILEGE OR WHAT --
>> IT'S A LONG STANDING POLICY
OF THE DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE,
NOT TO COMMENT ON CONVERSATIONS
THAT THE ATTORNEY GENERAL HAS
HAD WITH THE PRESIDENT OF THE
UNITED STATES FOR CONFIDENTIAL
REASONS THAT REALLY ARE FOUNDED
IN THE CO-EQUAL BRANCH, POWERS
AND THE CONSTITUTION OF THE
UNITED STATES.
>> BUT THAT -- SO JUST SO I'M
UNDERSTANDING, DOES THAT MEAN
ARE YOU CLAIMING EXECUTIVE
PRIVILEGE TODAY SIR?
>> I'M NOT CLAIMING EXECUTIVE
PRIVILEGE BECAUSE THAT'S THE
PRESIDENT'S POWER AND I HAVE NO
POWER TO CLAIM EXECUTIVE
PRIVILEGE.
>> WHAT ABOUT PRIVILEGE OF OTHER
WHITE HOUSE OFFICIALS ABOUT
POTENTIAL PARDONS, NOT THE
PRESIDENT SIR.
>> MR. CHAIRMAN WITHOUT ANY
SUGGESTION THAT I'VE HAD ANY
CONVERSATIONS CONCERNING
PARDONS, TOTALLY PARDON FROM
THAT, THERE ARE COMMUNICATIONS
WITHIN THE DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
THAT WE THEIR ALL OF US DO.
WE HAVE A RIGHT TO HAVE FULL AND
ROBUST DEBATE WITHIN THE
DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE.
WE ENCOURAGE PEOPLE TO SPEAK UP
AND ARGUE CASES ON DIFFERENT
SIDES AND THOSE ARGUMENTS ARE
NOT REVEALED HISTORICALLY, WE
HAVE SEEN THAT THEY SHOULDN'T BE
REVEALED.
>> I WOULD HOPE THAT YOU WOULD
AGREE THAT SINCE YOU HAVE
RECUSED YOURSELF, DURING OUR
INVESTIGATION OR DIRECTOR
MUELLER'S INVESTIGATION THAT
WOULD BE I THINK PROBLEMATIC.
LET ME, ONE OF THE COMMENTS YOU
MADE IN YOUR TESTIMONY WAS, THAT
YOU HAD REACHED THIS CONCLUSION
ABOUT THE PERFORMANCE OF
THEN-DIRECTOR COMEY'S ABILITY TO
LIED THE FBI, THAT YOU AGREED
WITH DEPUTY ATTORNEY GENERAL
ROSEN STEIN'S MEMO, THE FACT
THAT YOU HAD WORKED WITH
DIRECTOR AT THE TIME, HAVE YOU
EVER HAD A CONVERSATION AS A
SUPERIOR TO DIRECTOR COMEY, THAT
HE WASN'T RUNNING THE FBI IN A
GOOD WAY OR THAT SOMEHOW THE FBI
IS IN TURMOIL, DID YOU HAVE ANY
CONVERSATIONS WITH DIRECTOR
COMEY ABOUT THOSE SUBJECTS?
>> I DID NOT.
>> SO YOU WERE HIS SUPERIOR, AND
THERE WERE SOME FAIRLY HARSH
THINGS SAID ABOUT DIRECTOR
COMEY.
YOU NEVER THOUGHT IT WAS
APPROPRIATE TO RAISE THOSE
CONCERNS BEFORE HE WAS
ABSOLUTELY TERMINATED BY THE
PRESIDENT?
>> I DID NOT DO SO.
A MEMORANDUM WAS PREPARED 50
DISPUTE ATTORNEY GENERAL, WHO
EVALUATED HIS PERFORMANCE, NOTED
SOME SERIOUS PROBLEMS WITH IT.
ONE OF THEM --
>> AND YOU AGREED WITH THOSE
CONCLUSIONS?
>> I AGREED WITH THOSE.
IN FACT SENATOR WARNER, WE HAD
TALKED ABOUT IT EVEN BEFORE I
WAS CONFIRMED AND BEFORE HE WAS
CONFIRMED.
IT'S SOMETHING THAT WE BOTH
AGREED TO, THAT A FRESH START AT
THE FBI WAS PROBABLY THE BEST
THING.
>> THIS JUST AGAIN SEEMS A
LITTLE -- I COULD UNDERSTAND IF
YOU TALKED ABOUT THAT BEFORE YOU
CAME ON YOU HAD A CHANCE FOR A
FRESH START, THERE WAS NO FRESH
START.
SUDDENLY WE'RE IN THE MIDST OF
THE INVESTIGATION AND WITH
TIMING THAT SEEM A LITTLE
PECULAR, WHAT AT LEAST TO ME WAS
OUT OF THE BLUE THE PRESIDENT
FIRES THE FBI DIRECTOR AND IF
THERE ARE ALL THESE PROBLEMS OF
DISARRAY AND A LACK OF COURT THE
FBI ALL THE THINGS THAT THE
ACTING DIRECTOR OF THE FBI
DENIED IS THE CASE I WOULD HAVE
THOUGHT THAT SOMEBODY WOULD HAVE
HAD THAT CONVERSATION WITH
DIRECTOR COMEY.
HE WOULD HAVE BEEN AT LEAST OWED
THAT.
LET'S GO TO THE APRIL 27th
MEETING.
IT HAS BEEN BROUGHT UP, I THINK
CHAIRMAN BROUGHT IT UP, BY THE
TIME APRIL 27th CAME UP YOU
HAD BEEN NAMED THE CHAIR OF
PRESIDENT TRUMP'S NATIONAL
SECURITY ADVISORY.
>> THAT WAS THE MAYFLOWER HOTEL?
>> YES, SIR.
YES, SIR.
MY UNDERSTANDING WAS THAT THE
PRESIDENT'S SON-IN-LAW JARED
KUSHNER WAS AT THAT MEETING AS
WELL?
>> I BELIEVE HE WAS, YES.
>> AND YOU DON'T RECOLLECT
WHETHER MR. KUSHNER HAD ANY
CONVERSATIONS WITH AMBASSADOR
KISLYAK AT THAT SESSION?
>> I DO NOT.
>> TO THE BEST OF YOUR MEMORY
YOU HAD NO CONVERSATIONS WITH
AMBASSADOR KISLYAK AT THAT
MEETING?
>> I DON'T RECALL, I CAN ASSURE
YOU NOTHING IMPROPER IF I HAD A
CONVERSATION.
IT IS CONCEIVABLE THAT I HAD A
CONVERSATION BUT I JUST DON'T
REMEMBER IT.
>> THERE IS NOTHING IN YOUR
NOTES OR MEMORY THAT WHEN YOU
HAD A CHANCE, AND I APPRECIATE,
CORRECT THE RECORD ABOUT THE
OTHER TWO SESSIONS IN RESPONSE
TO SENATOR FRANKEN AND SENATOR
LEAHY, THAT THIS DIDN'T POP INTO
YOUR MEMORY THAT IN THE
OVERABUNDANCE OF CAUTION YOU
OUGHT TO REPORT THAT SESSION AS
WELL?
>> WELL I GUESS I COULD SAY THAT
POSSIBLY AT A MEETING BUT I
STILL TO NOT RECALL IT.
AND I DID NOT IN ANY WAY FAIL TO
RECORD SOMETHING ON -- IN MY
TESTIMONY OR IN MY SUBSEQUENT
LETTER INTENTIONALLY FALSE.
>> I UNDERSTAND.
I UNDERSTAND THAT SIR.
I'M JUST TRYING TO UNDERSTAND,
WHEN YOU CORRECTED THE RECORD
AND CLEARLY, BY THE TIME YOU HAD
A CHANCE TO CORRECT THE RECORD,
I WOULD HAVE THOUGHT YOU WROTE
HAVE KNOWN THAT AMBASSADOR
KISLYAK WAS AT THAT APRIL 27th
SESSION, IT RECEIVED SOME --
QUITE A BIT OF PRESS NOTORIETY,
AND AGAIN, ECHOING WHAT THE
CHAIRMAN HAS SAID, JUST AGAIN
FOR RECORD, THERE WAS NO OTHER
MEETING WITH ANY OTHER OFFICIALS
OF THE WASHINGTON GOVERNMENT
DURING CAMPAIGN SEASON?
>> NOT TO MY RECOLLECTION.
AND WOULD I JUST SAY WITH REGARD
TO -- I WOULD JUST SAY WITH
REGARD TO THE TWO ENCOUNTERS,
ONE AT THE MAYFLOWER HOTEL THAT
YOU REFERRED TO, I CAME THERE
NOT KNOWING HE WAS GOING TO BE
THERE.
I DON'T HAVE ANY RECOLLECTION OF
EVEN KNOWING HE WOULD BE THERE.
I DIDN'T HAVE ANY COMMUNICATIONS
WITH HIM BEFORE OR AFTER THAT
EVENT.
AND LIKEWISE, AT THE EVENT AT
THE CONVENTION, I WENT OFF THE
CONVENTION GROUNDS TO A COLLEGE
CAMPUS FOR AN EVENT THAT HAD
BEEN SET UP AND --
>> AT THE MAYFLOWER --
>> LET ME JUST FOLLOW UP ON THAT
ONE.
I DIDN'T KNOW HE WOULD BE IN THE
AUDIENCE AND HAD NO BRIEFLY --
>> AT THE MAYFLOWER --
>> OKAY.
>> -- THERE WAS THIS KIND OF I
GUESS VIP RECEPTION AT FIRST AND
THEN THEY WENT INTO THE --
>> THAT'S MY RECOLLECTION.
>> AND YOU WERE PART OF THE VIP
RECEPTION?
>> YES, SIR.
>> GENERAL SESSIONS ONE OF THE
AGAIN, TROUBLING THINGS AI NEED
TO SORT THROUGH IS -- THAT I
NEED TO SORT THROUGH IS,
MR. COMEY'S TESTIMONY LAST WEEK
WAS THAT HE FELT UNCOMFORTABLE
WHEN THE PRESIDENT ASKED
EVERYONE ELSE TO LEAVE THE ROOM,
HE LEFT THE IMPRESSION THAT YOU
LINGERED PERHAPS THE SENSE THAT
YOU FELT UNCOMFORTABLE ABOUT IT
AS WELL, I'M GOING TO ALLOW YOU
TO OBVIOUSLY ANSWER AND CORRECT
IF THAT IS NOT THE IMPRESSION.
CLEARLY, DIRECTOR COMEY HAD
SOMEWHAT OF UNCOMFORTABLENESS,
YOU NEVER ASKED DIRECTOR COMEY
WHAT TOOK PLACE IN THAT MEETING?
>> I WOULD JUST SAY IT THIS WAY.
WE WERE THERE, I WAS STANDING
THERE, AND WITHOUT REVEALING ANY
CONVERSATION THAT TOOK PLACE,
WHAT I DO RECALL IS, THAT I DID
DEPART, I BELIEVE EVERYONE ELSE
DID DEPART, AND DIRECTOR COMEY
WAS SITTING IN FRONT OF THE
PRESIDENT'S DESK, AND THEY WERE
TALKING.
SO THAT'S WHAT I DO REMEMBER.
I BELIEVE IT WAS THE NEXT DAY
THAT HEREMEMBER.
THAT HE SAID SOMETHING EXPRESSED
CONCERN ABOUT BEING LEFT ALONE
WITH THE PRESIDENT.
BUT THAT, IN ITSELF, IS NOT
PROBLEMATIC.
HE DID NOT TELL ME AT THAT TIME
ANY DETAILS ABOUT ANYTHING THAT
WAS SAID THAT WAS IMPROPER.
I AFFIRMED HIS CONCERN THAT WE
SHOULD BE FOLLOWING THE PROPER
GUIDELINES AND BASICALLY BACKED
HIM UP IN HIS CONCERNS.
AND THAT HE SHOULD NOT CARRY ON
ANY CONVERSATION WITH THE
PRESIDENT OR ANYONE ELSE ABOUT
AN INVESTIGATION IN THE WAY THAT
IT WAS NOT PROPER.
I FELT HE SO LONG IN THE END
FORMER DEPUTY ATTORNEY GENERAL,
AS I RECALL KNEW THOSE A GOOD
DEAL BETTER THAN I DID.
>> BUT IT DID APPEAR THAT MR.
COMEY FELT THAT THE CONVERSATION
WAS.
>> HE EXPRESSED CONCERN ABOUT
IT.
AND WHAT HE SAID TO ME ABOUT HIS
CONCERN, IS CONSISTENT WITH MY
RECOLLECTION.
>> ATTORNEY GENERAL SESSIONS,
GOOD TO HEAR YOU TALK ABOUT HOW
IMPORTANT THIS RUSSIAN
INTERFERENCE AND MEASURES IN OUR
CAMPAIGN IS.
I DON'T THINK THERE'S ANY
AMERICAN WHO WOULD DISAGREE WITH
THE FACT THAT WE NEED TO DRILL
DOWN TO THINK KNOW WHAT
HAPPENED, GET IT OUT IN FRONT OF
THE AMERICAN PEOPLE AND DO WHAT
WE CAN TO STOP IT.
AND THAT'S WHAT THIS COMMITTEE
WAS CHARGED TO DO.
AS YOU PROBABLY KNOW, A "NEW
YORK TIMES" PUBLISHED AN ARTICLE
ALLEGING THERE WAS CONSTANT
COMMUNICATIONS BETWEEN THE TRUMP
CAMPAIGN AND RUSSIANS AND
COLLUSION REGARDING THE
ELECTIONS.
DO YOU RECALL THAT ARTICLE WHEN
IT CAME OUT?
>> IN THE EXACTLY.
>> GENERALLY?
>> MR. COMEY TOLD US WHEN HE WAS
HERE THAT HE HAD VERY SPECIFIC
RECOLLECTION.
HE CAME DOWN THROUGH THE
INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY AND WAS
NOT ABLE TO FIND A SCINTILLA OF
EVIDENCE IN THAT EFFECT.
THEN HE SAW THE REPUBLICANS AND
DEMOCRATS APPEAR TO THEM THEM
THAT THIS WAS FALSE.
THAT THERE WAS NO, NO --
ANYWHERE THAT CORROBORATED WITH
THE "NEW YORK TIMES" HAD
REPORTED.
NONETHELESS, AFTER THAT, THIS
COMMITTEE TOOK THAT ON IS ONE OF
THE THINGS WE SPENT REALLY
SUBSTANTIALLY MORE TIME ON THAT
THAN WE HAVE ON THE RUSSIAN
ACTIVE MEASURE, WE'VE BEEN
THROUGH THOUSANDS OF PAGES OF
INFORMATION, INTERVIEWED
WITNESSES AND EVERYTHING ELSE.
REALLY NO DIFFERENT THAN WHAT WE
WERE WHEN THIS WHOLE THING
STARTED.
BUT AND THERE'S BEEN NO REPORTS
THAT I KNOW OF ANY FACTUAL
INFORMATION REGARDING.
OF ARE YOU AWARE OF ANY SUCH
INFORMATION?
>> THAT ROSE FROM THE SO CALLEDS
DOIER?
I BELIEVE THAT'S THE REPORT THAT
CENTER FRANK HIT ME WITH WHEN I
WAS TESTIFYING; AND I THINK IT'S
BEEN PRETTY SUBSTANTIALLY
DISCREDITED BUT YOU KNOW KNOW
MORE THAN I ABOUT WHAT WAS SAID
THAT WOULD SUGGEST I
PARTICIPATED IN A CONTINUING
COMMUNICATIONS WITH THE RUSSIANS
OVER AS A SURROGATE IS
ABSOLUTELY FALSE.
>> MR. SESSIONS, THERE'S BEEN
ALL THIS TALK ABOUT
CONVERSATIONS AND THAT YOU HAD
CONVERSATIONS WITH THE RUSSIANS.
INTELLIGENCE ARMED SERVICES.
CONVERSATIONS WITH OFFICERS OF
OTHER GOVERNMENTS OR AMBASSADORS
WHAT HAVE YOU ARE EVERY DAY
OCCURRENCES HERE, MULTIPLE TIME
OCCURRENCE FOR MOST OF US.
IS THAT A FAIR STATEMENT
>> I THINK IT IS, YES.
>> IF YOU RUN INTO ANYONE IN THE
GROCERY YOU'RE GOING TO HAVE A
CONVERSATION WITH THEM.
IS THAT FAIR
>> VERY WELL HAPPEN.
NOTHING IMPROPER.
>> ON THE OTHER HAND, COLLUSION
WITH RUSSIANS OR ANY OTHER
GOVERNMENT FOR THAT MATTER, WHEN
IT COMES TO YOU ARE OUR
ELECTIONS CERTAINLY WOULD BE
IMPROPER AND ILLEGAL.
WOULD THAT BE A FAIR STATEMENT.
>> ABSOLUTELY
>> ARE YOU WILLING TO SIT HERE
AND TELL THE AMERICAN PEOPLE
UNFILTERED THAT YOU PARTICIPATED
IN NO CONVERSATIONS OF ANY KIND
WHERE THERE WAS COLLUSION
BETWEEN THE TRUMP CAMPAIGN AND
ANY OTHER FOREIGN GOVERNMENT
>> I CAN SAY THAT ABSOLUTELY.
AND I HAVE NO HESITATION TO DO
SO.
>>> FORMER US ATTORNEY, ATTORNEY
GENERAL OF THE UNITED STATES.
YOU PARTICIPATED AS YOU
DESCRIBED IN THE TRUMP CAMPAIGN,
AND AS SUCH, YOU TRAVELED WITH
THE CAMPAIGN, MY GATHER
>> I DID.
>> YOU SPOKE FOR THE CAMPAIGN.
>> A NUMBER OF OCCASIONS, I WAS
NOT CONTINUALLY ON THE
>> BASED ON YOUR PARTICIPATION
IN THE CAMPAIGN, DID YOU HEAR
EVEN A WHISPER OR SUGGESTION OR
ANYONE MAKING REFERENCE WITHIN
THAT CAMPAIGN THAT SOMEHOW THE
RUSSIANS WERE INVOLVED IN THAT
CAMPAIGN
>> I DID NOT
>> WHAT WOULD YOU HAVE DONE IF
YOU HEARD THAT,
>> I WOULD HAVE BEEN SHOCKED AND
KNOWN IT WAS IMPROPER
>> AND HEADED FOR THE EXIT
>> MAYBE.
SO THIS WAS, YOU KNOW, SERIOUS
- - THIS IS A SERIOUS MATTER,
BECAUSE WHAT YOU'RE TALKING
ABOUT HACKING INTO A PRIVATE
PERSON OR DNC, COMPUTER AND
OBTAINING INFORMATION, AND
SPREADING THAT, THAT'S JUST NOT
RIGHT AND I BELIEVE IT'S LIKELY
THAT LAWS WERE VIOLATED.
IF THAT ACTUALLY OCCURRED.
SO IT'S AN IMPROPER THING.
>> MR. SESSION, HAS ANYONE
PERSON, FROM THE WHITE HOUSE OR
THE ADMINISTRATION INCLUDING THE
PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES,
EITHER DIRECTED YOU OR ASKED YOU
TO TO DO ANY UNLAWFUL OR ILLEGAL
ACT SINCE YOU'VE BEEN ATTORNEY
GENERAL OF THE UNITED STATES?
>> NO, SENATOR RISCH
>> THANK YOU, MR. CHAIRMAN.
>>> MS. FEINSTEIN.
>> THANKS VERY MUCH.
MR. CHAIRMAN.
WELCOME, ATTORNEY GENERAL
>> THANK YOU.
>> ON MAY 19TH, MR. ROSEN STEIN
IN STATEMENT TO THE HOUSE OF
REPRESENTATIVES ESSENTIALLY TOLD
THEM THAT HE LEARNED ON MAY 8TH
THAT PRESIDENT TRUMP INTENDED TO
ROUGH DIRECTOR COMEY.
WHEN YOU WROTE YOUR LETTER ON
MAY 9, DID YOU KNOW THAT THE
PRESIDENT HAD ALREADY DECIDED TO
FIRE DIRECTOR COMEY?
>> SENATOR FEINSTEIN, I WOULD
SAY THAT I BELIEVE IT'S BEEN
MADE PUBLIC THAT THE PRESIDENT
ASKED US OUR OPINION, IT WAS
GIVEN AND HE ASKED US TO PUT
THAT IN WRITING.
AND I DON'T KNOW HOW MUCH MORE
HE SAID ABOUT IT THAN THAT.
BUT I BELIEVE HE HAS TALKED
ABOUT IT AND I WOULD LET HIS
WORDS SPEAK FOR THEMSELVES.
>> ON MAY 11TH, ON NBC NIGHTLY
NEWS, TWO DAYS LATER, THE
PRESENT STATED HE WAS GOING TO
FIRE COMEY REGARDLESS OF THE
RECOMMENDATION.
I'M PUZZLED ABOUT THE
RECOMMENDATION BECAUSE THE
DECISION HAD BEEN MADE SO WHAT
WAS THE NEED FOR YOU TO WRITE A
RECOMMENDATION?
>> WELL, WE WERE ASKED OUR
OPINION AND WHEN WE EXPRESSED IT
WHICH WAS CONSISTENT WITH THE
MEMORANDUM AND LETTER WE WROTE,
I FELT COMFORTABLE IN, I GUESS,
DEPUTY ATTORNEY GENERAL DID TOO
IN PROVIDING THAT INFORMATION IN
WRITING
>> DO YOU CONCUR WITH THE
PRESIDENT REGARDLESS OF
RECOMMENDATION BECAUSE THE
PROBLEM WAS AT RUSSIAN
INVESTIGATION
>> SENATOR FEINSTEIN, I'LL HAVE
TO LET HIS WORDS SPEAK FOR
HIMSELF I'M NOT SURE WHAT WAS IN
HIS MIND EXPLICITLY WHEN WE
TALKED WITH HIM.
>> DID YOU EVER DISCUSS,
DIRECTOR COMEY'S FBI HANDLING OF
THE RUSSIA INVESTIGATION WITH
THE PRESIDENT OR ANYONE ELSE.
>> THAT WOULD CALL FOR A
COMMUNICATION BETWEEN THE
ATTORNEY GENERAL AND THE
PRESIDENT AND I'M NOT ABLE TO
COMMENT ON IT.
>> YOU'RE NOT ABLE TO ANSWER THE
QUESTION HERE WHETHER YOU EVER
DISCUSSED THAT WITH HIM?
>> THAT'S CORRECT.
>> AND HOW DO YOU VIEW THAT
SINCE YOU IS DISCUSSED HIS
TERMINATION, WHY WOULDN'T YOU
DISCUSS THE REASONS?
>> WELL, THAT WAS PUT IN WRITING
AND SENT TO THE PRESIDENT.
HE MADE THOSE PUBLIC, SO HE MADE
THAT PUBLIC.
>> YOU NO VERBAL CONVERSATION
WITH HIM ABOUT THE FIRING OF MR.
COMEY
>> I'M NOT ABLE TO DISCUSS WITH
YOU OR CONFIRM OR DENY THE
NATURE OF PRIVATE CONVERSATIONS
THAT I MAY HAVE HAD WITH THE
PRESIDENT ON THIS SUBJECT OR
OTHERS.
AND I KNOW THAT HOW THIS WILL BE
DISCUSSED BUT THAT'S THE RULES
ALL ALONG ADHERED TO BY THE
DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE, AS YOU
KNOW, SENATOR FEINSTEIN
>> WE HEARD MR. COATS AND WE
HEARD ADMIRAL ROGERS SAY
ESSENTIALLY THE SAME THING, WHEN
IT WAS EASY, JUSTS AT THE ANSWER
WAS NO, NO.
>> WOULD IT HAVE BEEN EASY TO
SAY IT WAS YES, YES, BUT BOTH
WOULD HAVE BEEN IMPROPER.
>> OK, SO HOW EXACTLY WERE YOU
INVOLVED IN THE TERMINATION OF
DIRECTOR COMEY?
I'M LOOKING AT YOUR LETTER AND
YOU SAY THE DIRECTOR OF THE FBI
MUST BE SOMEONE AM I FOLLOWS
FAITHFULLY THE RULES AND
PRINCIPLES, WHO SETS THE RIGHT
EXAMPLE FOR LAW ENFORCEMENT
OFFICIALS.
THEREFORE I MUST RECOMMEND THAT
YOU REMOVE DIRECTOR COMEY AND
IDENTIFY AN EXPERIENCED AND
QUALIFIED INDIVIDUAL TO LEAD THE
GREAT MEN AND WOMEN OF THE FBI.
DO YOU REALLY BELIEVE THAT THIS
HAD TO DO WITH DIRECTOR COMEY,
THE MEN AND WOMEN OF THE FBI?
>> THAT WAS A CLEAR VIEW OF MINE
AND OF DEPUTY ATTORNEY GENERAL
ROSEN STEIN AS HE SET OUT AT
SOME LENGTH IN HIS MEMORANDA
THAT I ADOPTED AND SENT TO THE
PRESIDENT AND WE HAD PROBLEMS
THERE AND IT WAS MY BEST
JUDGMENT THAT A FRESH START AT
THE FBI WAS THE APPROPRIATE
THING TO DO.
AND WHEN I ASKED SAID THAT TO
THE PRESIDENT, IT'S SOMETHING I
HAD ADHERE TO, DEPUTY ROSEN
STEIN'S LETTER DEALT WITH A
NUMBER OF THINGS.
WHEN MR. COMEY DECLINED THE
CLINTON PROSECUTION.
THAT WAS REALLY A USER PATIENT
OF THE AUTHORITY OF THE FEDERAL
PROSECUTORS IN DEPARTMENT OF
JUSTICE.
IT WAS A STUNNING DEVELOPMENT.
THE FBI IS THE INVESTIGATIVE
TEAM.
THEY DON'T DECIDE PROSECUTION
POLICIES.
HE ALSO COMMENTED AT SOME LENGTH
ON THE DECLINATION OF THE
CLINTON PROSECUTION, WHICH YOU
SHOULD NOT -- YOU SHOULDN'T DO.
POLICIES IF YOU DECLINE, YOU
DECLINE AND YOU DON'T TALK ABOUT
IT.
THAT WERE OTHER THINGS THAT HAD
HAPPENED THAT INDICATED TO ME A
LACK OF DISCIPLINE AND CAUSED
CONTROVERSY ON BOTH SIDES OF THE
AISLE, AND I HAD COME TO THE
CONCLUSION THAT A FRESH START
WAS APPROPRIATE, AND DID NOT
MIND PUTTING THAT IN WRITING
>> MY TIME IS UP.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
>>> MR. RUBIO.
>> THANK YOU FOR BEING HERE,
ATTORNEY GENERAL.
I WANT TO GO BACK TO FEBRUARY
14TH AND CLOSE THE LOOP ON THE
DETAILS.
DIRECTOR COMEY WAS HERE AND
PROVIDED GREAT DETAIL ABOUT THAT
DAY.
WHAT I'M DOING SO FAR THERE WAS
A MEETING IN THE OVAL OFFICE ON
THE 14TH.
AT SOME POINT THE MEETING
CONCLUDED EVERYONE GOT UP TO
LEAVE.
THE PRESIDENT ASKED DIRECTOR
COMEY TO STAY BEHIND; CORRECT?
>> THAT'S A COMMUNICATION IN THE
WHITE HOUSE THAT I WOULD NOT
COMMENT ON.
I DO
>> DO YOU REMEMBER SEEING HIM
STAY BEHIND, YES?
HIS VIEW IT OF IT WAS THAT YOU
LINGERED BECAUSE YOU KNEW YOU
NEEDED TO STAY?
DO YOU REMEMBER LINGERING
FEELING LIKE YOU NEEDED TO STAY,
I DO RECALL BEING ONE OF THE
LAST ONES TO LEAVE
>> DID YOU DECIDE TO BE.
>> I DON'T KNOW HOW THAT
OCCURRED.
WE FINISHED I THINK A TERRORISM,
COUNTER TERRORISM BRIEFING AND
PEOPLE WERE FILTERING OUT AND I
EVENTUALLY LEFT AND I DO RECALL
I THINK I WAS ONE OF THE LAST
TWO OR THREE TO LEAVE
>> WOULD IT BE FAIR TO SAY THAT
YOU FELT LIKE YOU PERHAPS YOU
NEEDED TO STAY BECAUSE IT
INVOLVED THE FBI DIRECTOR
>> I DON'T KNOW HOW I WOULD
CHARACTERIZE THAT, SENATOR
RUBIO.
I LEFT, IT DIDN'T SEEM TO ME TO
BE A MAJOR PROBLEM.
I KNEW THAT DIRECTOR COMEY LONG
TIME EXPERIENCED IN THE
DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE COULD
HANDLE HIMSELF WELL.
>> SO YOU SAW HIM AFTER THAT.
HE CHARACTERIZED IT AS HE WENT
UP TO YOU AND SAID NEVER LEAVE
ME ALONE WITH THE PRESIDENT.
IT'S NOT APPROPRIATE AND HE SAID
AND THIS IS HIS CHARACTERIZATION
YOU JUST KIND OF SHRUGGED AS IF
TO SAY WHAT AM I SUPPOSED TO DO
ABOUT IT
>> I THINK I DESCRIBED IT MORE
COMPLETELY CORRECTLY.
HE RAISED THAT ISSUE WITH ME.
I BELIEVE THE NEXT DAY.
I THINK I WAS CORRECT, AND HE
EXPRESSED CONCERN TO ME ABOUT
THAT PRIVATE CONVERSATION, AND I
AGREED WITH HIM ESSENTIALLY THAT
THERE ARE RULES ON PRIVATE
CONVERSATIONS WITH THE
PRESIDENT.
BUT IT'S NOT A PROHIBITION ON A
PRIVATE DISCUSSION WITH THE
PRESIDENT AS I BELIEVE HE
ACKNOWLEDGED SIX OR MORE HIMSELF
WITH PRESIDENT OBAMA AND
PRESIDENT DONALD TRUMP, SO I
DIDN'T FEEL LIKE THAT'S -- AND
HE GAVE ME NO DETAIL ABOUT WHAT
IT WAS THAT HE WAS CONCERNED
ABOUT.
SO I DIDN'T SAY I WOULDN'T BE
ABLE TO RESPOND IF HE CALLED ME.
HE CERTAINLY KNEW THAT WITH
REGARD THAT HE COULD CALL HIS
DIRECT SUPERVISOR, WHICH, IN THE
DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE, THE
INSPECTOR IS THE DEPUTY ATTORNEY
GENERAL, HE COULD HAVE
COMPLAINED TO THE DEPUTY OR TO
ME AT ANY TIME IF HE FELT
PRESSURED BUT I HAD NO DOUBT
THAT HE WOULD NOT YIELD TO ANY
PRESSURE
>>,J.
>> Reporter: DO YOU KNOW IF THE
PRESIDENT RECORDS CONVERSATIONS
IN THE OVAL OFFICE OR ANYWHERE
IN THE WHITE HOUSE
>> I DO NOT.
>> IF FACT, IN ANY PRESIDENT WAS
TO RECORD CONVERSATIONS IN THE
OFFICIAL DUTIES OF THE WHITE
HOUSE, WOULD THERE BE AN
OBLIGATION TO PRESERVE THOSE
RECORDS
>> I DON'T THINK SENATOR RUBIO,
PROBABLY SO.
>> I WANT TO GO TO THE CAMPAIGN
FOR A MOMENT.
I'M SURE YOU'RE AWARE, IT'S BEEN
WIDELY REPORTED IN RUSSIAN
INTELLIGENCE AGENCIES OFTEN POSE
NOT SIMPLY AS OFFICIAL BUT IN
COVERS AS BUSINESSMEN,
JOURNALIST AND THE LIKELY AT ANY
POINT DURING THE CAMPAIGN, DID
YOU HAVE AN INTERACTION WITH
ANYONE WHO IN HINDSIGHT YOU LOOK
BACK AND SAY, THEY WERE TRYING
TO INFLUENCE ME OR GAIN INSIGHT,
THAT YOU LOOK AT AND WONDER
>> I DON'T BELIEVE IN MY
CONVERSATIONS, WITH THE THREE
TIMES
>> JUST IN GENERAL.
>> WELL, I MET A LOT OF PEOPLE,
A LOT OF FOREIGN OFFICIALS WHO
WANTED TO ARGUE THEIR CASE FOR
THEIR COUNTRY AND TO POINT OUT
THINGS THAT THEY THOUGHT WERE
IMPORTANT FOR THEIR COUNTRIES.
THAT'S A NORMAL THING, I I GUESS
WE TALK ABOUT
>> AS FAR AS SOMEONE WHO'S NOT
AN OFFICIAL FROM ANOTHER
COUNTRY, JUST A BUSINESSMAN OR
WALKING DOWN THE STREET STRUCK
YOU TRYING TO FIND OUT WHAT YOU
WERE UP TO OR THE CAMPAIGN, YOU
NEVER REMEMBER ANY SORT OF
INTERACTION THAT IN HINDSIGHT
APPEARS SUSPICIOUS
>> I'D HAVE TO RACK MY BRAIN BUT
I DON'T RECALL IT NOW
>> LAST QUESTION.
YOU WERE ON THE FOREIGN POLICY
TEAM, THE PLATFORM OF THE
PLATFORM WAS CHANGED TO NOT
PROVIDE DEFENSIVE WEAPONS TO
UKRAINE'S WERE YOU INVOLVED IN
THAT DECISION?
DO YOU KNOW HOW THAT CHANGE WAS
MADE OR WHO WAS INVOLVED IN
MAKING THAT CHANGE.
>> I WAS NOT ACTIVE IN PLATFORM
COMMITTEE.
DID NOT PARTICIPATE IN THAT AND
DON'T THINK I HAD ANY DIRECT
INVOLVEMENT
>> DO YOU KNOW WHO DID?
YOU HAVE NO RECOLLECTION OF A
DEBATE ABOUT THAT ISSUE INTERNAL
UNTIL THE CAMPAIGN
>> I NEVER WATCHED THE DEBATE.
IF IT OCCURRED ON THE PLATFORM
COMMITTEE.
I THINK IT DID.
SO I'D HAVE TO THINK ABOUT THAT.
>> MR. CHAIRMAN I WANT TO THANK
YOU FOR HOLDING THIS HEARING IN
THE OPEN IN FULL VIEW OF THE
AMERICAN PEOPLE WHERE IT
BELONGS.
I BELIEVE THE AMERICAN PEOPLE
HAVE HAD IT WITH STONE WALKING,
AMERICANS DON'T WANT TO HEAR
ANSWERS TO RELEVANT QUESTIONS
ARE PRIVILEGED AND OFF LIMITS OR
THAT THEY CAN'T BE PROVIDED IN
PUBLIC OR THAT IT WOULD BE QUOTE
INAPPROPRIATE FOR WITNESSES TO
TELL US WHAT THEY KNOW.
WE'RE TALKING ABOUT AN ATTACK ON
OUR DEMOCRATIC INSTITUTIONS, AND
STONE WALKING OF ANY IS
UNACCEPTABLE.
AND GENERAL SESSIONS
ACKNOWLEDGED THAT THERE IS NO
LEGAL BASIS FOR THIS STONE
WALKING.
IT'S NOT A QUESTION.
LAST THURSDAY, I ASKED FORMER
DIRECTOR COMEY ABOUT THE FBI'S
INTERACTIONS WITH YOU, GENERAL
SESSIONS, PRIOR TO YOUR STEPPING
ASIDE FROM THE RUSSIAN
INVESTIGATION.
MR. COMEY SAID THAT YOUR
CONTINUED ENGAGEMENT WITH THE
RUSSIAN INVESTIGATION WAS,
QUOTE, PROBLEMATIC, AND HE, MR.
COMEY, COULD NOT DISCUSS IT IN
PUBLIC.
MR. COMEY ALSO SAID THAT FBI
PERSONNEL HAD BEEN CALLING FOR
YOU TO STEP ASIDE FROM THE
INVESTIGATION, AT LEAST TWO
WEEKS BEFORE YOU FINALLY DID SO.
NOW, IN YOUR PREPARED STATEMENT
YOU STATED YOU RECEIVED ONLY,
QUOTE, LIMITED INFORMATION
NECESSARY TO INFORM YOUR RECUSAL
DECISION.
BUT GIVEN DIRECTOR COMEY'S
STATEMENT, WE NEED TO KNOW WHAT
THAT WAS.
WERE YOU AWARE OF ANY CONCERNS
THAT THE FBI OR ELSEWHERE IN
GOVERNMENT ABOUT YOUR CONTACTS
WITH THE RUSSIANS OR ANY OTHER
MATTERS RELEVANT TO WHETHER YOU
SHOULD STEP ASIDE FROM THE
RUSSIAN INVESTIGATION?
>> SENATOR WYDEN, I AM NOT STONE
WALKING, I'M FOLLOWING THE
HISTORIC POLICIES OF THE
DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE.
YOU DON'T WALK IN TO ANY HEARING
OR COMMITTEE MEETING AND REVEAL
COMMUNICATIONS WITH THE PUPS
PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES
WHO'S ENTITLED TO RECEIVE
CONFIDENTIAL COMMUNICATIONS IN
YOUR BEST JUDGMENT ABOUT A LOT
OF OF ISSUES AND BE ACCUSED OF
STONE WALKING FOR NOT ANSWERING.
I WOULD PUSH BACK ON THAT.
I BASICALLY RECUSED MYSELF THE
FIRST DAY I GOT INTO THE OFFICE
BECAUSE I NEVER ACCESSED FILES,
I NEVER LEARNED THE NAMES OF
INVESTIGATORS.
I NEVER MET WITH THEM, NEVER
ASKED FOR DOCUMENTATION.
THE DOCUMENTATION WHAT LITTLE I
RECEIVED WAS MOSTLY ALREADY IN
THE MEDIA.
AND WAS PRESENTED BY THE SENIOR
ETHICS PUBLIC RESPONSIBILITY
PROFESSIONALs<s<U
RESPONSIBILITYATQ0V1E0S10=50
ABOUT
HIS ANGER IN THE
INVESTIGATIONS ABOUT HIS
ASSOCIATES IN RUSSIA.
THE DAY BEFORE YOU WROTE YOUR
LETTER HE TWEETED THE COLLUSION
STORY WAS A TOTAL HOAXED AND
ASKED WHEN WILL THIS TAX-PAYER
FUNDED CHARADE END.
I DON'T THINK YOUR ANSWER PASSES
IS SMELL TEST.
>> SENATOR I THINK I SHOULD BE
ALLOWED TO BRIEFLY RESPOND AT
LEAST AND WOULD SAY THE LETTER,
THE MEMORANDUM THAT SENATOR,
THAT DEPUTY ROSENSTEIN WROTE AND
MY LETTER THAT ACCOMPANIED IT,
REPRESENTED MY VIEWS OF THE
SITUATION.
>> THANK YOU, MR. CHAIRMAN.
>> SENATOR COLLINS.
ATTORNEY GENERAL SESSIONS, I
WANT TO CLARIFY WHO DID WHAT
WITH REGARD TO THE FIRING OF
MR. COMEY.
FIRST OF ALL, LET ME ASK YOU,
WHEN DID YOU HAVE YOUR FIRST
CONVERSATION WITH ROSENSTEIN
ABOUT MR. COMEY?
>> WE TALKED ABOUT IT BEFORE
EITHER ONE OF US WAS CONFIRMED.
IT WAS A TONIC OF CONVERSATION
AMONG THE PEOPLE WHO SERVED IN
THE DEPARTMENT A LONG TIME.
THEY KNEW WHAT HAD HAPPENED THAT
FALL WAS PRETTY DRAMATICALLY
UNUSUAL.
PEOPLE FELT IT WAS VERY WRONG,
AND SO IT WAS IN THAT CONTEXT
THAT WE DISCUSSED IT.
WE BOTH FOUND WE SHAREHOLDER
COMMON -- SCHAIRD COMMON VIEW --
SHARED COMMON VIEW THAT A
PRESSURE START WAS APPROPRIATE.
>> THIS WAS BASED ON MR. COMEY'S
HANDLING OF THE INVESTIGATION
INVOLVING HILLARY CLINTON IN
WHICH YOU SAID THAT HE SERVED
THE AUTHORITY OF PROSECUTORS AT
THE DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE.
>> YES.
THAT WAS PART OF IT.
AND COMMENTING ON THE
INVESTIGATION IN WAYS THAT GO
BEYOND THE PROPER POLICY.
WE NEED TO RESTORE SENATOR
COLLINS.
I THINK THE CLASSIC DISCIPLINE
IN THE DEPARTMENT, MY TEAM,
WE'VE DISCUSSED THIS, HAS BEEN
TOO MUCH LEAKING AND TOO MUCH
TALKING PUBLICLY ABOUT
INVESTIGATIONS.
IN THE LONG RUN, THE DEPARTMENT
HISTORIC RULE THAT YOU REMAIN
MUM ABOUT ONGOING INVESTIGATIONS
IS THE BETTER POLICY.
>> NOW SUBSEQUENTLY THE
PRESIDENT ASKED FOR YOU TO PUT
YOUR VIEWS IN WRITING YOU
TESTIFIED TODAY.
AND I BELIEVE THAT YOU ARE RIGHT
TO RECUSE YOURSELF FROM THE
ONGOING RUSSIAN INVESTIGATION.
BUT THEN ON MAY 9TH, YOU WROTE
TO THE PRESIDENT RECOMMENDING
THAT MR. COMEY BE DISMISSED.
AND OBVIOUSLY THIS WENT BACK
MANY MONTHS TO THE EARLIER
CONVERSATIONS YOU HAD HAD WITH
MR. ROSENSTEIN.
MY QUESTION IS, WHY DO YOU
BELIEVE THAT YOUR RECOMMENDATION
TO FIRE DIRECTOR COMEY WAS NOT
INCONSISTENT WITH YOUR MARCH 2ND
RECUSAL?
>> THANK YOU.
THE RECUSAL INVOLVED ONE CASE
INVOLVED IN THE DEPARTMENT OF
JUSTICE.
AND?
THE FBI.
THEY CONDUCT THOUSANDS OF
INVESTIGATIONS.
I'M THE ATTORNEY GENERAL OF THE
UNITED STATES.
INVESTIGATIONS.
I'M THE ATTORNEY GENERAL OF THE
UNITED STATES.
IT'S MY RESPONSIBILITY TO OUR
JUDICIARY COMMITTEE AND OTHER
COMMITTEES TO ENSURE THAT
DEPARTMENT IS RUN PROPERLY.
I HAVE TO MAKE DIFFICULT
DECISIONS.
AND I DO NOT BELIEVE IN IT IS A
SOUND POSITION TO SAY THAT IF
YOU RECUSED FOR A SINGLE CASE
INVOLVING ANYONE OF THE GREAT
AGENCIES LIKE DEA OR USMARSHALS
OR ATF THAT ARE PART OF THE
DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE, YOU CAN'T
MAKE A DECISION ABOUT THE
LEADERSHIP IN THAT AGENCY.
>> NOW, IF YOU HAD
KNOWN THATZZ THE
SUBSEQUENT COMPLAINT WAS
GOING TO GO ON TV AND IN AN
INTERVIEW WITH LESTER HOLTZ OF
NBC WOULD SAY THAT THIS RUSSIAN
THING WAS THE REASON FOR HIS
DECISION TO DISMISS THE FBI'S
DIRECTOR, WOULD YOU HAVE FELT
UNCOMFORTABLE ABOUT THE TIMING
OF THE DECISION?
>> WELL, I WOULD JUST SAY
SENATOR COLLINS, I DON'T THINK
IT'S APPROPRIATE TO DEAL WITH
THOSE TYPE OF HYPOTHETICALS.
I HAVE TO DEAL IN ACTUAL ISSUES
AND I WOULD RESPECTFUL NOT
COMMENT ON THAT.
>> LET ME ASK YOU THIS.
IN RETROSPECT, DO YOU BELIEVE
THAT IT WOULD HAVE BEEN BETTER
FOR YOU TO HAVE STAYED OUT OF
THE DECISION TO FIRE DIRECTOR
COMEY
>> I THINK IT'S MY
RESPONSIBILITY, I MEAN, I WAS
APPOINTED TO BE ATTORNEY
GENERAL, SUPERVISING ALL THE
FEDERAL AGENCIES IS MY
RESPONSIBILITY.
TRYING TO GET THE BEST PEOPLE IN
THOSE AGENCIES AT THE TOP OF
THEM IS MY RESPONSIBILITY, AND I
THINK I HAD A DUTY TO DO SO.
>> NOW, DIRECTOR COMEY TESTIFIED
THAT HE WAS NOT COMFORTABLE
TELLING YOU ABOUT HIS ONE-ON-ONE
CONVERSATION WITH THE PRESIDENT
ON FEBRUARY 14TH BECAUSE HE
BELIEVED THAT YOU WOULD SHORTLY
RECUSE YOURSELF FROM THE RUSSIAN
INVESTIGATION, WHICH YOU DID.
YET DIRECTOR COMEY TESTIFIED
THAT HE TOLD NO ONE ELSE AT THE
DEPARTMENT OUTSIDE OF THE SENIOR
LEADERSHIP TEAM AT THE FBI.
DO YOU BELIEVE THAT THE DIRECTOR
HAD AN OBLIGATION TO BRING THE
INFORMATION ABOUT THE PRESIDENT
SAYING THAT HE HOPED HE COULD
LET MICHAEL FLYNN GO TO SOMEONE
ELSE AT THE DEPARTMENT OF
JUSTICE?
>> I THINK THE APPROPRIATE THING
WOULD HAVE BEEN FOR DIRECT COMEY
TO TALK WITH THE ACTING DEPUTY
ATTORNEY GENERAL WHO IS HIS
DIRECT SUPERVISOR.
THAT WAS DANA BINTAY, WHO HAD 33
YEARS IN THE DEPARTMENT OF
JUSTICE, AND WAS EVEN THEN STILL
SERVING FOR SIX YEARS AND
CONTINUE TO SERVE AS TOUCH
APPOINTED BY PRESIDENT OBAMA.
SO HE'S A MAIN OF GREAT
INTEGRITY.
IF HE HAD CONCERNS HE SHOULD
HAVE RAISED IT TO DEPUTY
ATTORNEY GENERAL VINTAY WHO
WOULD HAVE BEEN THE APPROPRIATE
PERSON IN ANY CASE REALLY, BUT
IF HE HAD CONCERN THAT MIGHT BE
RECUSING MYSELF, THAT WOULD BE A
DOUBLE REASON FOR HIM TO SHARE
IT WITH BINTAY.
>> THANK YOU.
>> ATTORNEY GENERAL
SESSIONS HAS
THE PRESIDENT EVER EXPRESSED
FRUSTRATION TO YOU REGARDING
YOUR DECISION TO RECUSE
YOURSELF?
>> I'M NOT ABLE TO SHARE WITH
THIS COMMITTEE.
>> INVOKING EXECUTIVE PRIVILEGE
>> I'M NOT ABLE TO INVOKE
EXECUTIVE PRIVILEGE, THAT'S THE
PRESIDENT'S PREROGATIVE.
>> MY UNDERSTANDING IS THAT YOU
TOOK AN OATH, RAISED YOUR RIGHT
HAND HERE TODAY AND SAID THAT
YOU WOULD SOLEMNLY SWEAR TO TELL
THE TRUTH, THE WHOLE TRUTH AND
NOTHING BUT THE TRUTH.
NOW YOU'RE NOT ANSWERING
QUESTIONS, YOU'RE IMPEDING THIS
INVESTIGATION.
SO MY UNDERSTANDING OF THE LEGAL
STANDARD IS THAT YOU EITHER
ANSWER THE QUESTION, THAT'S THE
BEST OUTCOME.
YOU SAY, THIS IS CLASSIFIED,
CAN'T ANSWER IT HERE.
I'LL ANSWER IT IN CLOSED
SESSION.
THAT'S BUCK NUMBER TWO.
BUCKET NUMBER THREE IS TO SAY
I'M INVOKING EXECUTIVE
PRIVILEGE.
THERE IS NO APPROPRIATENESS
BUCKET.
IT IS NOT A LEGAL STANDARD.
CAN YOU TELL THE WHAT ARE THESE
STANDING DOJ RULES THAT PROTECT
CONVERSATIONS MADE IN THE
EXECUTIVE
>> I'M PROTECTING THE
PRESIDENT'S CONSTITUTIONAL RIGHT
BY NOT GIVING IT AWAY BEFORE HE
HAS A CHANCE TO DEAL.
AND SECONDLY I AM TELLING THE
TRUTH IN ANSWERING YOUR QUESTION
AND SAYING IT'S A LONGSTANDING
POLICY OF THE DEPARTMENT OF
JUSTICE.
EVEN, AND TO MAKE SURE THE
PRESIDENT HAS FULL OPPORTUNITY
TO DECIDE THESE ISSUES.
>> CAN YOU SHARE THOSE POLICIES
WITH US?
ARE THEY WRITTEN DOWN AT THE
DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
>> I BELIEVE THEY ARE
>> APPROPRIATENESS LEGAL
STANDARD IS NOT ANSWERING
CONGRESSIONAL INQUIRIES
>> IF THE JUDGE, MY JUDGMENT,
THAT IT WOULD BE INAPPROPRIATE
FOR ME TO ANSWER AND REVEAL
PRIVATE CONVERSATIONS WITH THE
PRESIDENT WHEN HE HAS NO HAD A
FULL OPPORTUNITY TO REVIEW THE
QUESTIONS AND TO MAKE A DECISION
ON WHETHER OR NOT TO APPROVE
SUCH AN ANSWER, ONE, THAT ALSO
OTHER PRIVILEGE THAT IS COULD BE
INVOKED.
ONE OF THE THINGS DEALS WITH CAN
THE INVESTIGATION OF THE SPECIAL
COUNCIL
>> YOU'RE NOT ANSWERING THE
QUESTIONS ABOUT THAT
INVESTIGATION.
IF I WANTED TO ASK QUESTIONS
ABOUT THAT INVESTIGATION, I'D
ASK THOSE OF ROD ROSEN STEIN.
I'M ASKING ABOUT YOUR PERSONAL
KNOWLEDGE FROM THIS COMMITTEE,
WHICH HAS A CONSTITUTIONAL
OBLIGATION TO GET TO THE BOTTOM
OF THIS.
THERE ARE TWO INVESTIGATIONS
HERE.
THERE'S A SPECIAL COUNCIL
INVESTIGATION AND ALSO A
CONGRESSIONAL INVESTIGATION.
AND YOU ARE OBSTRUCTING THAT
CONGRESSIONAL INVESTIGATION BY
NOT ANSWERING THESE QUESTIONS.
AND I THINK YOUR SILENCE, LIKE
THE SILENCE OF DIRECTOR COATS,
LIKE SILENCE OF ROGER, SPEAKS
VOLUMES.
>> I WOULD SAY THAT I HAVE
CONSULTED WITH SENIOR CAREER
ATTORNEYS IN THE DEPARTMENT AND
THEY BELIEVE THIS IS CONSISTENT
WITH MY DUTIES.
>> SENATOR RISCH ASKED YOU A
QUESTION ABOUT APPROPRIATENESS
IF YOU HAD KNOWN THAT THERE HAD
BEEN ANYTHING UNTOWARD WITH
REGARD TO RUSSIA AND THE
CAMPAIGN, WOULD YOU HAVE HEADED
FOR THE EXIT?
YOUR RESPONSE WAS MAYBE.
WHY WASN'T IT A SIMPLE YES?
>> WELL, THERE WAS AN IMPROPER
ILLEGAL RELATIONSHIP IN AN
EFFORT TO IMPEDE OR INFLUENCE
THIS CAMPAIGN, I ABSOLUTELY
WOULD HAVE DEPARTED.
>> THAT'S A GOOD ANSWER.
I'M NOT SURE WHY IT WASN'T THE
ANSWER IN THE FIRST PLACE.
>> I THOUGHT I DID
>> I THOUGHT IT STRANGE THAT
NEITHER YOU OR DEPUTY ATTORNEY
ROD ROSEN STEIN BROUGHT UP
PERFORMANCE ISSUES WITH DIRECTOR
COMEY.
IN FACT, DEPUTY FBI DIRECTOR
McCABE HAS DIRECTLY REFUTED ANY
ASSERTION THAT THERE WERE
PERFORMANCE ISSUES.
THIS IS TROUBLING BECAUSE IT
APPEARS THAT THE PRESIDENT
DECIDED TO FIRE DIRECTOR COMEY
BECAUSE HE WAS PURSUING THE
RUSSIAN INVESTIGATION AND HAD
ASKED YOU TO COME UP WITH AN
EXCUSE.
WHEN YOUR ASSESSMENT OF DIRECTOR
COMEY DIDN'T HOLD UP TO PUBLIC
SCRUTINY, THE PRESIDENT FINALLY
ADMITTED THAT HE HAD FIRED
DIRECTOR COMEY BECAUSE HE WAS
PURSUING THE RUSSIAN
INVESTIGATION.
I THE LESTER HOLT INTERVIEW.
YOU CLAIM THAT DAY YOU DID NOT
BREAK RECUSAL WHEN PARTICIPATING
IN THE FIRING BUT APPEARS THAT
HIS FIRING WAS DIRECTLY RELATED
TO RUSSIA, NOT DEPARTMENT TALL
MISMANAGEMENT.
HOW DO YOU SQUARE THOSE TWO
THINGS.
>> THERE'S A LOT IN THAT
QUESTION.
LET ME SAY FIRST, A WEEK AGO, I
BELIEVE MAY 3RD, DIRECTOR COMEY
TESTIFIED THAT HE BELIEVED THE
HANDLING OF THE CLINTON
DECLINATION WAS PROPER AND
APPROPRIATE AND HE WOULD DO IT.
THAT WAS OF GREAT CONCERN TO
BOTH OF US.
BECAUSE IT DID NOT THAT
REPRESENTED SOMETHING THAT I
THINK MOST PROFESSIONALS IN THE
DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE WOULD
TOTALLY AGREE THAT THE FBI
INVESTIGATED AGENCY DOES NOT
DECIDE WHETHER TO PROSECUTE OR
DECLINE CRIMINAL CASES.
BREATH TAKING USE OF PATIENT OF
THE RESPONSIBILITY OF THE
ATTORNEY GENERAL.
SO THAT'S HOW WE FELT, THAT WAS
SORT OF ADDITIONAL CONCERN THAT
WE HAD HEADING THE FBI, SOMEONE
WHO BOLD'S ASSERTED THE RIGHT TO
CONTINUE TO MAKE SUCH DECISIONS.
THAT WAS ONE OF THE THINGS WE
DISCUSSED.
THAT WAS IN THE MEMORANDUM I
THINK, AND IT WAS ALSO A FACTOR
FOR US.
>> BEFORE I RECOGNIZE SENATOR, I
WOULD LIKE THE RECORD TO SHOW
THAT LAST NIGHT, ADMIRAL ROGERS
SPENT ALMOST TWO HOURS IN CLOSE
SESSION WITH -- ALMOST THE FULL
COMMITTEE REFILLING HIS
COMMITMENT TO HIS IN THE HEARING
THAT IN CLOSED SESSION HE WOULD
ANSWER THE QUESTION AND I THINK
IT WAS THOROUGHLY ANSWERED AND
ALL MEMBERS WERE GIVEN AN
OPPORTUNITY TO ASK QUESTIONS.
I JUST WANT THE RECORD TO SHOW
THAT WAS WHAT HE STATED.
>> THANK YOU, CHAIRMAN.
ATTORNEY GENERAL, GOTS TO SEE
YOU HERE, AND MARY, I KNOW THAT
PROBABLY THERE ARE OTHER PLACES
YOU'D BOTH RATHER BE BUT YOU
ALWAYS LOOKED AT PUBLIC SERVICE
YOU DID TOGETHER AND KNOW THAT
YOUR FAMILY CONTINUES TO BE
PROUD AND SUPPORTIVE OF WHAT YOU
DO.
>> THANK YOU, I'M BLESSED
INDEED.
>> I AGREE WITH THAT.
I AGREE WITH THAT.
LET ME JUST GET A COUPLE OF
THINGS CLEAR OF NOTES I'VE TAKEN
WHILE PEOPLE WERE ASKING
QUESTIONS.
ON APRIL 27TH, 2016 EVENT, I
BELIEVE THAT'S THE MAY FLOWER
HOTEL SPEECH THAT THE
PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE GAVE ON
FOREIGN POLICY.
YOU DIDN'T HAVE A ROOM AT THAT
EVENT WHERE YOU HAD PRIVATE
MEETINGS.
DID YOU?
>> NO, I DID NOT
>> AS I UNDERSTAND YOU WENT TO A
RECEPTION ATTENDED BY HOW MANY
PEOPLE?
>> I THINK TWO TO THREE DOZEN.
>> TWO TO THREE DOZEN PEOPLE.
YOU WENT IN HEARD HIS SPEECH AND
THEN MAY HAVE SEEN PEOPLE ON
YOUR WAY OUT?
CORRECT
>> WHEN YOU SAID YOU POSSIBLY
HAD A MEETING WITH MR. KISLIAK,
DID YOU MEAN YOU POSSIBLY MET
HIM?
>> I DIDN'T HAVE ANY FORMER
MEETING WITH HIM.
I MAY HAVE HAD AN ENCOUNTER
DURING THE RECEPTION.
THAT'S THE ONLY THING I CAN.
I'M SAY WITH CERTAINTY I DID
NOT.
>> THAT'S WHAT I THOUGHT YOU
WERE SAYING BUT SOMETIMES I HEAR
A MEETING THAT WOULD MEAN MORE
TO ME THAN I MET SOMEBODY.
YOU MIGHT HAVE MET HIM AT THE
RECEPTION.
COULD YOU HAVE MET OTHER
AMBASSADORS AT THAT RECEPTION AS
WELL?
EITHER COULD.
>> I COULD.
OF I REMEMBER ONE IN PARTICULAR
THAT WE HAD A COUNTRY WITH.
HE HAD AN INVESTMENT IN ALABAMA
AND WE TALKED A LITTLE LENGTH
ABOUT THAT BUT OTHERWISE, NO
RECOLLECTION OF A DISCUSSION
WITH THE SHOULD GO AMBASSADOR.
>> SO YOU WERE THERE, YOU READ
SINCE HE WAS THERE, YOU MAY HAVE
SEEN HIM BUT YOU HAD NO ROOM
WHERE YOU WERE HAVING MEETINGS
WITH INDIVIDUALS TO HAVE
DISCUSSIONS AT THE MAY FLOWER
HOTEL THAT DAY.
>> NO, THAT IS CORRECT.
>> ON WHENEVER YOU TALKED TO MR.
COMEY, AFTER HE HAD HAD HIS
MEETING WITH THE PRESIDENT, YOU
THINK THAT WAS PROBABLY THE NEXT
DAY, YOU DIDN'T STAY AFTERWARDS
AND SEE HIM AFTER HE LEFT THE
OVAL OFFICE THAT NIGHT?
>> NO.
AS I UNDERSTAND THE TESTIMONY
MAY HAVE SUGGESTED THAT IT
HAPPENED RIGHT AFTERWARDS, BUT
IT WAS EITHER THE NEXT MORNING,
WHICH I THINK IT WAS, OR MAYBE
THE MORNING AFTER THAT.
WE HAD A THREE TIMES A WEEK
NATIONAL SECURITY BRIEFING WITH
THE FBI THAT I UNDERTAKE, AND SO
IT WAS AFTER THAT THAT WE HAD
THAT CONVERSATION.
>> NOW, WHAT I'M NOT QUITE CLEAR
ON IS DID YOU RESPOND WHEN HE
EXPRESSED HIS CONCERN OR NOT?
>> YES, I DID RESPOND.
I THINK HE WAS INCORRECT.
HE INDICATED, I BELIEVE, THAT HE
WOULD NOT TOTALLY SURE OF THE
EXACT WORDING OF THE MEETING BUT
I DO RECALL MY CHIEF OF STAFF
WAS WITH ME, AND WE RECALL THAT
I DID AFFIRM LONG STANDING
WRITTEN POLICY OF THE DEPARTMENT
OF JUSTICE CONCERNING
COMMUNICATIONS WITH THE WHITE
HOUSE.
WE HAVE TO FOLLOW THOSE RULES,
AND IN THE LONG RUN, YOU'RE MUCH
BETTER OFF IF YOU DO.
THEY DID NOT PROHIBIT
COMMUNICATIONS ONE-ON-ONE BY THE
FBI DIRECTOR WITH THE PRESIDENT.
BUT IF THAT CONVERSATION MOVES
INTO CERTAIN AREAS, IT'S THE
DUTY, THE RULES APPLY TO THE
DAMAGE JUSTICE.
SO DUTY OF THE FBI TO SAY, MR.
PRESIDENT, I CAN'T TALK ABOUT
THAT.
THAT'S THE WAY THAT SHOULD WORK.
AND APPARENTLY IT DID.
BECAUSE HE SAID HE DID NOT
IMPROPERLY DISCUSS MATTERS WITH
THE PRESIDENT.
>> WHEN MR. COMEY TALK TO YOU
ABOUT MEETING DID HE MENTION MR.
FLYNN?
>> NO
>> HE MENTIONED NO FACTS OF ANY
KIND.
HE DID NOT MENTION TO ME THAT HE
ASKED TO DO SOMETHING HE THOUGHT
WAS IMPROPER.
HE JUST SAID HE WAS
UNCOMFORTABLE, I BELIEVE, WITH
IT.
>> AFTER THAT DISCUSSION WITH
MR. COMEY
>> ACTUALLY, I DON'T KNOW THAT
HE SAID HE WAS UNCOMFORTABLE.
I BELIEVE HE SAID MAYBE WHAT HE
TESTIFIED TO PERHAPS THE CORRECT
WORDING.
I'M NOT SURE EXACTLY WHAT HE
SAID.
BUT I DON'T DISPUTE IT
>> WELL, EXACTLY WHAT, I THINK
- - WHAT I REMEMBER HIM SAYING
WAS THAT YOU DIDN'T REACT AT ALL
WHEN KIND OF SHRUGGED.
YOU'RE SAYING YOU REFERRED HIM
TO THE NORMAL WAY THESE MEETINGS
ARE SUPPOSED TO BE CONDUCTED?
>> I TOOK IT AS A CONCERN THAT
HE MIGHT BE ASKED SOMETHING THAT
WAS IMPROPER, AND I AFFIRMED TO
HIM HIS WILLINGNESS TO SAY NO.
NOT GO IN AN IMPROPER WAY,
IMPROPER DIRECTION.
>> PARDON ME, I'M ASSUMING YOU
WOULDN'T TALK ABOUT THIS BECAUSE
IT WOULD RELATE TO THE MAY 8
MEETING.
BUT MY SENSE IS THAT NO DECISION
IS FINAL UNTIL IT'S CARRIED OUT.
MY GUESS IS THAT THERE ARE
PEOPLE AT THIS WHO HAVE SAID
THEY WERE GOING TO LET SOMEBODY
GO OR FIRE SOMEBODY THAT NEVER
DID THAT.
SO THE FACT THAT THE PRESIDENT
SAID THAT ON MAY 8 DOESN'T MEAN
THAT THE INFORMATION HE GOT FROM
YOU ON MAY 9 WAS NOT NECESSARY
OR IMPACTFUL AND I'M SURE YOU'RE
NOT GOING TO SAY HOW MANY TIMES
THE PRESIDENT SAID WE OUGHT TO
GET RID OF THAT PERSON, BUT I'M
SURE THAT'S HAPPENED AND
CHAIRMAN,
>> SENATOR McCAINE
>> THANK YOU FOR JOINING US
TODAY.
>> THANK YOU
>> YOU TESTIFIED-
AGO, I'M NOT ABLE TO INVOKE
EXECUTIVE PRIVILEGE.
THAT'S UP TO THE PRESIDENT.
HAS THE PRESIDENT INVOKED
EXECUTIVE PRIVILEGE IN CASE OF
YOUR TESTIMONY HERE TODAY?
>> HE HAS NOT
>> THEN WHAT IS THE BASIS OF
YOUR REFUSAL TO ANSWER QUESTION
>> SENATOR KANE, THE PRESIDENT
HAS A CONSTITUTIONAL?
>> I UNDERSTAND THAT BUT THE
PRESIDENT HASN'T ASSERTED IT.
YOU DON'T HAVE THE POWER TO
ASSERT THE POWER OF EXECUTIVE
PRIVILEGE.
WHAT IS THE LEGAL BASIS FOR YOUR
REFUSAL TO ANSWER THESE
QUESTION.
>> I'M PROTECTING RIGHT OF THE
PRESIDENT TO ASSERT IT IF HE
CHOOSES.
AND THERE MAY BE OTHER PRIVILEGE
THAT IS COULD APPLY IN THIS
CIRCUMSTANCE.
>> I DON'T UNDERSTAND HOW YOU
CAN HAVE IT BOTH WAYS.
PRESIDENT CAN'T NOT ASSERT IT
AND YOU'VE TESTIFIED THAT ONLY
THE PRESIDENT CAN ASSERT IT YET
I JUST DON'T UNDERSTAND THE
LEGAL BASIS FOR YOUR REFUSAL TO
>> WHAT WE TRY TO DO, I THINK
MOST CABINET OFFICIALS OTHERS
THAT YOU QUESTIONED RECENTLY,
OFFICIALS BEFORE THE COMMITTEE
PROTECT THE PRESIDENT'S RIGHT TO
DO SO.
IF IT COMES TO A POINT WHERE THE
ISSUE IS CLEAR, AND THERE'S A
DISPUTE ABOUT IT AT SOME POINT
THE PRESIDENT WILL EITHER ASSERT
THE PRIVILEGE OR NOT OR SOME
OTHER PRIVILEGE CAN BE -- WOULD
BE ASSERTED BUT AT THIS POINT, I
BELIEVE IT'S PREMATURE
>> IT WOULD BE PREMATURE FOR ME
TO DENY THE PRESIDENT A FULL AND
INTELLIGENT CHOICE OF EXECUTIVE
PRIVILEGE.
THAT'S NOT NECESSARY AT THIS
POINT
>> YOU TESTIFIED QUOTE WE WERE
ASKED FOR OUR OPINION.
WHO ASKED FOR YOUR OPINION?
>> YOU MEAN?
YOU TESTIFIED WE WERE ASKED FOR
OUR OPINION.
>> MY UNDERSTANDING IS I BELIEVE
I'M CORRECT IN SAYING THE
PRESIDENT HAS SAID SO.
THAT
>> HE DIDN'T ASK YOU DIRECTLY?
>> I THOUGHT YOU WERE ASKING
ABOUT THE PRIVILEGE.
>> NO, I'M GOING TO BACK.
>> YOU SAID QUOTE, WE WERE ASKED
FOR OUR OPINION.
YOU AND MR. ROSEN STEIN
>> I BELIEVE THAT WAS
APPROPRIATE FOR ME TO SAY THAT
BECAUSE I BELIEVE THE PRESIDENT
>> I'M JUST ASKING YOU.
>> I'M SAYING
>> I'M ASKING
>> WHO ASKED YOU FOR YOUR
OPINION?
>> RIGHT.
THE PRESIDENT ASKED FOR OUR
OPINION.
>> SO YOU JUST TESTIFIED AS TO
THE CONTENT OF THE
COMMUNICATIONS
>> THAT IS CORRECT BUT I BELIEVE
HE'S ALREADY REVEALED THAT.
I BELIEVE I'M CORRECT IN SAYING
THAT.
THAT'S WHY I INDICATED THAT WHEN
I ANSWERED THAT QUESTION.
BUT IF HE HASN'T AND I'M IN, I
WOULD HAVE CONSTRICTED HIS
CONSTITUTIONAL RIGHTS OF
PRIVILEGE.
YOU'RE CORRECT
>> YOU'RE BEING SELECTIVE ABOUT
THE
>> I'M NOT INTENTIONALLY I'M
DOING SO ONLY BECAUSE I BELIEVE
HE MADE THAT
>> FIRING OF JAMES COMEY, DID
THE QUESTION OF THE SHOULD GO
INVESTIGATION EVER COME UP
>> I CANNOT ANSWER THAT BECAUSE
THAT WOULD BE COMMUNICATION BY
THE PRESIDENT OR IF ANY SUCH
OCCURRED, IT WOULD BE A
COMMUNICATION THAT IS NOT
WAIVED.
RY
>>.
>>>
>> DO YOU BELIEVE THE RUSSIANS
INTERFERED WITH THE 2016
ELECTIONS
>> APPEARS SO THE INTELLIGENCE
COMMUNITY SEEMS TO BE UNITED BUT
I HAVE TO TELL YOU I'VE LEARNED
NOTHING BUT WHAT I'VE READ IN
THE PAPER.
NEVER RECEIVED DETAILED BRIEFING
ON HOW HACKING OCCURRED OR HOW
INFORMATION WAS ALLEGED TO HAVE
INFLUENCED THE CAMPAIGN.
>> BETWEEN THE ELECTION, THERE
WAS A MEMORANDUM FROM THE
INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY ON
OCTOBER 9, THAT DETAILED WHAT
THE RUSSIANS WERE DOING.
AFTER THE ELECTION BEFORE THE
INAUGURATION YOU NEVER SOUGHT
ANY INFORMATION ABOUT THIS
RATHER DRAMATIC ATTACK ON OUR
COUNTRY?
>> NO.
>> YOU NEVER ASKED FOR A
BRIEFING OR ATTENDED A BRIEFING
OR READ THE INTELLIGENCE REPORTS
>> YOU MIGHT HAVE BEEN VERY
CRITICAL OF ME IF I HAD ENACTED
A PART OF THE CAMPAIGN WAS
SEEKING INTELLIGENCE RELATING TO
SOMETHING THAT MIGHT BE RELEVANT
TO THE CAMPAIGN.
I'M NOT SURE THAT
>> I'M NOT TALKING ABOUT THE
CAMPAIGN.
I'M TALKING ABOUT WHAT THE
RUSSIANS DID.
YOU RECEIVED NO BRIEFING ON THE
RUSSIAN ACTIVE MEASURES IN
CONNECTION WITH THE 2016
ELECTION
>> NO, I DON'T BELIEVE I EVER
DID
>> LET'S GO TO YOUR LETTER OF
MAY 9.
YOU SAID BASED ON MY EVALUATION,
FOR THE REASONS EXPRESSED BY THE
DEPUTY, WAS THAT A WRITTEN
EVALUATION?
>> MY EVALUATING WAS AN
EVALUATION THAT HAD BEEN GOING
ON FOR SOME MONTHS.
>> IS THERE A WRITTEN EVALUATION
>> I DID NOT MAKE ONE.
I THINK YOU COULD CLASSIFY
DEPUTY ATTORNEY GENERAL ROSEN
STEIN'S MEMORANDUM AS AN
EVALUATION, ONE THAT -- AND HE
WAS THE DIRECT SUPERVISOR OF THE
FBI DIRECTOR
>> HIS EVALUATION WAS BASED 100%
ON THE HILLARY CLINTON E-MAILS
>> ALONG WITH A NUMBER OF OTHER
MATTERS AS I RECALL BUT HE DID
EXPLICITLY LAY OUT THE ERRORS
THAT HE THOUGHT HAD BEEN MADE IN
THAT PROCESS BY THE DIRECTOR OF
THE FBI.
I THOUGHT THEY WERE COGENT AND
ACCURATE AND FAR MORE
SIGNIFICANT THAN I THINK A LOT
OF PEOPLE UNDERSTOOD.
>> THANK YOU, MR. CHAIRMAN.
ATTORNEY SESSIONS, GOOD TO SEE
YOU AGAIN, YOU SPEAK AS A MAN
EAGER TO SET THE RECORD
STRAIGHT.
YOU'VE SPOKEN PLAIN FROM
BEGINNING TO THIS TIME.
I'M AMAZED AT THE CONVERSATIONS
AS IF AN ATTORNEY GENERAL HAS
NEVER SAID TO A PRIVATE
CONVERSATIONS WITH THE
PRESIDENT, AND WE DON'T NEED TO
DISCUSS THOSE, THERE SEEMS TO BE
A SHORT MEMORY ABOUT SOME OF THE
STATEMENTS ERIC HOLDER WOULD AND
WOULD NOT MAKE TO ANY COMMITTEE
IN THE HOUSE OR THE SENATE.
AND WOULD OR WOULD NOT TURN OVER
DOCUMENTS EVEN REQUESTED.
THAT HAD TO GO THROUGH THE COURT
SYSTEM TO FINALLY THE COURTS
SAYING, NO, THE PRESIDENT CAN'T
HOLD BACK DOCUMENTS AND THE
ATTORNEY GENERAL CAN'T DO THAT.
SOMEHOW, SOME ACCUSATION THAT
YOU'RE NOT SAYING EVERY
CONVERSATION ABOUT EVERYTHING,
THERE'S A LONG HISTORY OF
ATTORNEY GENERALS STANDING
BESIDES THE PRESIDENT SAYING
THERE ARE SOME CONVERSATIONS
THAT ARE CONFIDENTIAL.
AND THEN CAN WE DETERMINE FROM
THERE.
IT DOES SEEM THAT EVERY UNNAMED
SOURCE STORY SOMEHOW GETS A
HEARING.
I WAS IN THE HEARING THIS
MORNING WITH ROD ROSEN STEIN, AS
WE DEALT WITH THE APPROPRIATIONS
REQUEST, THAT ORIGINALLY
OBVIOUSLY YOU WERE SCHEDULED TO
BE AT.
ROAD ROSEN STEIN WAS TAKING YOUR
PLACE TO BE ABLE TO COVER.
HE WAS CLEAR AND PEPPERED WITH
QUESTIONS ABOUT RUSSIA DURING
THAT CONVERSATION AS WELL HE WAS
VERY CLEAR THAT HE HAS NEVER HAD
CONVERSATIONS WITH YOU ABOUT
THAT AND YOU HAVE NEVER
REQUESTED CONVERSATIONS ABOUT
THAT.
HE WAS ALSO PEPPERED WITH
QUESTIONS OF THE LATEST RUMOR OF
THE DAY THAT IF SOMEHOW THE
PRESIDENT IS THINKING ABOUT
FIRING ROBERT MUELLER AND
GETTING RID OF HIM AND WAS CLEAR
THAT ROSEN STEIN HIMSELF SAID
I'M THE ONLY ONE THAT COULD DO
THAT AND I'M NOT CONTEMPLATING
THAT NOR WOULD I DO THAT AND NO
ONE HAS THE LATEST UNNAMED
SOURCE STORY OF THE DAY IS
COMING FROM, SOMEHOW IT'S
GRABBING THE ATTENTION.
I DO WANT TO BE ABLE TO BRING UP
A COUPLE THINGS.
ONE IS TO DEFINE THE WORD
RECUSE.
AND I COME BACK TO YOUR E-MAIL
THAT YOU SENT TO JIM COMEY AND
OTHER THAT IS DAY ON MARCH 2ND.
THIS WAS WHAT YOU HAD SAID
DURING IN YOUR E-MAIL, AFTER
CAREFUL CONSIDERATION FOLLOWING
MEETINGS WITH CAREER DEPARTMENT
OFFICIALS OVER THE COURSE OF
PAST SEVERAL WEEKS, THE ATTORNEY
GENERAL DECIDED TO RECUSE
HIMSELF FROM ANY EXISTING OR
FUTURE INVESTIGATIONS OF ANY
MATTERS RELATED IN ANY WAY TO
THE CAMPAIGNS FOR PRESIDENT OF
THE UNITED STATES.
THE ATTORNEY GENERAL'S RECUSAL
IS NOT ONLY WITH RESPECT TO SUCH
INVESTIGATIONS IF ANY, BUT ALSO
EXTEND TO THE DEPARTMENT OF
RESPONSES TO CONGRESSIONAL AND
MEDIA INQUIRIES RELATED TO SUCH
INVESTIGATIONS.
IS THAT SOMETHING YOU HAD
MAINTAINED FROM MARCH 2 ON
>> ABSOLUTELY.
ACTUALLY, I MAINTAINED IT FROM
THE FIRST DAY I BECAME TTORNEY
GENERAL.
WE DISCUSSED THOSE MATTERS AND I
FELT UNTIL, UNTIL AND IF I EVER
MADE A DECISION TO NOT RECUSE
MYSELF, I SHOULD NOT, AS
ABUNDANCE OF CAUTION, INVOLVE
MYSELF IN STUDYING.
I ALSO WOULD NOTE THAT
MEMORANDUM FROM MY CHIEF OF
STAFF DIRECTS THESE AGENCIES AND
ONE OF THE PEOPLE DIRECTLY IT
WAS SENT TO WAS JAMES BCOMEY,
DIRECTOR OF THE FBI.
YOU SHOULD INSTRUCT MEMBERS OF
YOUR STAFF TO NOT DEBRIEF THE
ATTORNEY GENERAL OR ANY OTHER
OFFICIALS IN THE OFFICE OF THE
ATTORNEY GENERAL, ABOUT OR
OTHERWISE INVOLVING THE ATTORNEY
GENERAL OR OTHER OFFICIALS IN
THE OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY
GENERAL IN ANY SUCH MATTERS
DESCRIBED ABOVE.
PROPER AND FIRM AND CRYSTAL
CLEAR POSITION THAT THE RECUSE
MEANT RECUSAL.
>> RELATING TO THE APRIL 27TH
MEETING, THE NASH INTEREST WAS
ASKED SPECIFICALLY ABOUT THIS AS
WELL WHO WAS HOST OF THAT EVENT.
THEY STATED THIS IN WRITING.
AS THE HOST OF THE CENTER FOR
NATIONAL INTEREST SOCIETY WHOM
TO INVITE AND ISSUED THE
INVITATIONS, THE TRUMP CAMPAIGN
DID NOT DETERMINE OR APPROVE THE
INVITATION LIST, GUESTS CONCLUDE
RED INCLUDED BOTH DEMOCRATS AND
REPUBLICANS WITH SOME SUPPORTING
OTHER CANDIDATES, MOSTLY THEY
WERE EXPERTS AND JOURNALIST,
CENTER FOR NATIONAL AND INTEREST
INVITED RUSSIAN AMBASSADOR AND
SEVERAL OTHER IS AMBASSADORS TO
THE SPEECH.
WE REGULARLY INVITE AMBASSADORS
AND OTHER FOREIGN AMBASSADORS TO
OUR EVENT TO FACILITATE
DIALOGUE.
AND ALSO IN THE FRONT ROW DURING
THE STREET IN DEFENSE RESIDENCE
TO THE DIPLOMATIC STATUS, THE
TRUMP CAMPAIGN HAD NOTHING TO DO
WITH THE SEATING.
THEY EXTENDED EQUAL TREATMENT TO
THE FOREIGN AMBASSADORS
ATTENDING THE EVENT AND ATTENDED
EACH TO A SHORT RECEPTION PRIOR
TO THE SPEECH.
IT INCLUDED APPROXIMATELY TWO
DOZEN GUESTS IN A RECEIVING
LINE, ANY CONVERSATIONS THAT MR.
TRUMP IN THAT SETTING WERE
INHERENTLY BRIEF AND COULD NOT
BE PRIVATE.
RECOLLECTION IS THAT THE
INTERACTION BETWEEN MR. TRUMP
AND THE AMBASSADOR KISLIAK WAS
POLITE EXCHANGE OF PLEASANTRIES,
WE'RE NOT AWARE OF ANY
CONVERSATION TO AN AMBASSADOR
KUSLIAK AND JEFF SESSIONS AT THE
RECEPTION.
HOWEVER IN SMALL GROUP SETTING
LIKE THIS, WE CONSIDER IT
UNLIKELY THAT ANYONE COULD HAVE
ENGAGED IN A MEANINGFUL PRIVATE
CONVERSATION WITHOUT DRAWING
ATTENTION FROM OTHERS PRESENTS'S
DO YOU HAVE ANY REASON TO
DISAGREE WITH THAT
>> NO, IT'S A VERY FAIR
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECEPTION
SITUATION.
I APPRECIATE THEM HAVING MADE
THAT STATEMENT.
>> THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU MR. SESSIONS FOR
BEING HERE.
>> SIR I'M GOING TO FOLLOW UP A
LITTLE BIT ON THAT WHAT THE
SENATOR HAD ASKED.
WE REMEMBER BACK IN OUR LIFETIME
WE NEVER KNOWN RUSSIANS, THE
RUSSIAN GOVERNMENT OR THE
RUSSIAN MILITARY TO EVER BE OUR
FRIEND.
AND ONE OF THE SAME THINGS WE
WANTED.
AND WITH THAT BEING SAID, THE
SERIOUS NESS OF THIS RUSSIAN
HACKING IS VERY SERIOUS TO ME.
AND CONCERNING, AND YOU WERE
SAYING THAT YOU HAD NOT BEEN
BRIEFED ON THAT.
OCTOBER, I THINK IT WAS OCTOBER
9, THE ONE THAT WAS KNOWN THAT
AT THAT TIME, MR. CLAPPER, AND
ALSO MR. JAY JOHNSON HOMELAND
SECURITY MADE THAT PUBLIC WHAT
WAS GOING ON, THEN ON DECEMBER
29, PRESIDENT OBAMA AT THAT TIME
EXPELLED 35 DIPLOMATS AND
BROADENED EXISTING SANCTIONS.
HAVE YOU HAD ANY DISCUSSIONS OR
SET IN ON ANY TYPE OF MEETINGS
OR RECOMMENDATIONS WERE MADE TO
REMOVE THOSE SANCTIONS
>> I DON'T RECALL
>> DURING THE TIME NOT FROM THE
PRESIDENT BEING
WERE
INAUGERATED.
>> I DON'T RECALL ANY SUCH
CONVERSATION, I'M NOT SURE I
UNDERSTOOD YOUR QUESTION.
?
YOU WERE PART OF THE NATIONAL
SECURITY TEAM.
IF HE WOULD HAVE HEARD SOMETHING
ABOUT RUSSIA AND THE
CAPABILITIES AND CONCERNED ABOUT
WHAT THEY COULD DO TO OUR
ELECTION PROCESS, WAS THERE EVER
ANY CONVERSATIONS CONCERNING
THAT WHATEVER SO EVER
>> I DON'T RECALL IT.
SENATOR.
>> I KNOW IT'S BEEN ASKED OF YOU
THINGS, YOUR EXECUTIVE
PRIVILEGES AND PROTECTING THE
PRESIDENT.
I UNDERSTAND THAT.
BUT ALSO WHEN WE HAD MR. COMEY
HERE, YOU KNOW, HE COULDN'T
ANSWER A LOT OF THINGS IN OPEN
SESSION'S WOULD YOU BE ABLE TO
GO INTO CLOSED SESSIONS WOULD IT
CHANGE YOUR ANSWERS TO US OR
ABILITY TO SPEAK NOR FRANKLY
>> I'M NOT SURE.
THE EXECUTIVE PRIVILEGE IS NOT
WAIVED BY GOING IN CAMERA OR IN
CLOSED SESSION.
I MAY BE THAT ONE OF THE
CONCERNS IS THAT WHEN YOU HAVE
AN INVESTIGATION ONGOING AS THE
SPECIAL COUNCIL DOES, IT'S OFTEN
PROBLEMATIC TO HAVE PERSONS NOT
COOPERATING WITH THAT COUNSEL IN
THE CONDUCT OF THE
INVESTIGATION.
MAY OR MAY NOT BE FACTOR IN
GOING IN THE CLOSED SESSIONS.
>> IT WOULD BE HELPFUL I BELIEVE
THE COMMITTEE HAS A LOT OF
QUESTIONS THEY'D LIKE TO ASK AND
I KNOW YOU WOULD LIKE TO ANSWER
IF POSSIBLE AND WE CAN CHECK IN
WITH THAT FURTHER.
IF I COULD, DO YOU HAVE ANY
MEETINGS ANY OTHER MEETINGS WITH
RUSSIAN GOVERNMENT OFFICIAL THAT
IS HAVE NOT BEEN PREVIOUSLY
DISCLOSED
>> I'VE RACKED MY BRAIN AND I'M
DO NOT BELIEVE SO.
I CAN ASSURE YOU THAT NONE OF
MEETINGS DISCUSSED MANIPULATING
CAMPAIGN OF A UNITED STATES IN
ANY WAY, SHAPE OR FORM OR
HACKING OR ANYTHING.
>> ARE THERE ANY OTHER MEETINGS
BETWEEN RUSSIAN GOVERNMENT
OFFICIALS AND ANY OTHER TRUMP
CAMPAIGN ASSOCIATE THAT IS HAVE
NOT BEEN PREVIOUSLY DISCLOSED
THAT YOU KNOW OF
>> I DON'T RECALL ANY.
>> TO THE BEST OF YOUR
KNOWLEDGE, DO ANY FOLLOWING
INDIVIDUALS MEET WITH RUSSIAN
OFFICIALS AT ANY POINT DURING
THE CAMPAIGN?
YES OR NO AS I GO DOWN.
PAUL MAN FORD?
>> REPEAT THAT, NOW?
TO THE BEST OF YOUR KNOWLEDGE,
DID ANY OF THESE FOLLOWING
INDIVIDUALS MEET WITH RUSSIAN
OFFICIALS AT ANY POINT DURING
THE CAMPAIGN AND YES OR NO.
PAUL MAN FORD?
>> I DON'T HAVE ANY INFORMATION
THAT HE HAD DONE SO.
HE SERVED AS CAMPAIGN CHAIRMAN
FOR FEW MONTHS.
>> STEVE BANNON
>> NO INFORMATION THAT HE DID.
>> GENERAL MICHAEL FLYNN
>> I DON'T RECALL IT
>> REINCE PRIEBUS
>> I DON'T RECALL
>> STEVE MILLER
>> I DON'T RECALL HIM EVER
HAVING SUCH A CONVERSATION.
>> CORE RELOON DO YOU SKI.
>> I DON'T RECALL ANY OF THOSE
INDIVIDUALS HAVING MEETING WITH
RUSSIAN OFFICIAL
>> CARTER A PAGE, I DON'T KNOW.
>> I WILL FINALLY ASK THIS, WE
TRY TO GET, YOU HAVE KNOWLEDGE.
>> THERE MAY HAVE BEEN SOME
PUBLISHED ACCOUNTS OF MR. PAGE
TALKING WITH RUSSIANS, I'M NOT
SURE.
I DON'T RECALL
>> YOU BRING A WHOLISTIC
PERSPECTIVE TO THIS
INVESTIGATION, IF YOU WERE
>> IT'S BETTER ON THAT SIDE.
>> IF YOU WERE SITTING ON THIS
SIDE.
>> I'M ABOUT TO ASK YOU ABOUT
YOUR PRIVATE CONVERSATIONS WITH
YOUR STAFF
>> HERE'S YOUR CHANCE.
IF YOU WERE SITTING ON THIS SIDE
OF THE DIAL WHAT QUESTION WOULD
YOU BE ASKING?
>> I WOULD BE ASKING WHETHER OR
NOT, I WOULD BE ASKING QUESTIONS
RELATED TO WHETHER OR NOT THERE
WAS AN IMPACT ON THIS ELECTION.
>> WHAT PART OF THE STORY DO YOU
>> BY FOREIGN POWER OF
PARTICULARLY THE RUSSIANS SINCE
TELL THIS COMMUNITY HAS
SUGGESTED AND STATED THAT THEY
BELIEVE THEY DID.
AND BUT I DO THINK MEMBERS OF
THIS GOVERNMENT HAVE OFFICES TO
RUN.
DEPARTMENTS TO MANAGE, AND THE
QUESTIONS SHOULD BE FOCUSED ON
THAT.
>> PART OF THE STORY, LET ME
SEE, I'M SORRY, MR. CHAIRMAN,
PART OF THE STORY WE'RE MISSING?
>> I DON'T KNOW BECAUSE I'M NOT
INVOLVED IN THE CAMPAIGN AND
HAVE NO INFORMATION CONCERNING
IT.
I HAVE NO IDEA AT WHAT STAGE IT
IS.
MEMBERS OF THAT COMMITTEE KNOW
MORE THAN I
>> THANK YOU, GENERAL SESSIONS
>> I WILL ASSURE YOU WE'RE VERY
MUCH FOCUSED ON RUSSIA'S
INVOLVEMENT AND OUR HOPE IS THAT
AS WE COMPLETE THE PROCESS, WE
WILL RELAY THOSE FACTS OUT TO
THE AMERICAN PEOPLE SO THEY CAN
MAKE THEIR OWN DETERMINATIONS AS
WELL.
WE'RE GRATEFUL FOR WHAT YOU'VE
DONE
>> I AM ON THIS SIDE OF THE
DIAL, SO I CAN SAY A VERY SIMPLE
QUESTION THAT SHOULD BE ASKED.
I'M ON THE SIDE OF THE DICE.
IT'S A SIMPLE QUESTION IS DID
DONALD TRUMP OR ANY ASSOCIATES
IN THE CAMPAIGN, COLUDE WITH
RUSSIA?
WE'VE HEARD FROM SIX OF THE
EIGHT DEMOCRATS IN THIS
COMMITTEE AND TO MY KNOWLEDGE, I
DON'T THINK A SINGLE ONE OF THEM
ASKED THAT QUESTION.
THEY'VE GONE DOWN LOTS OF OTHER
TRAILS BUT NOT THAT QUESTION.
MAYBE THAT IS BECAUSE JAMES
COMEY SAID LAST WEEK AS HE SAID
TO DONALD TRUMP THREE TIMES HE
ASSURED HIM HE'S NOT UNDER
INVESTIGATION.
MAYBE IT'S BECAUSE MULTIPLE
DEMOCRATS ON THIS COMMITTEE HAVE
STATED THEY HAVE SEEN NO
EVIDENCE THUS FAR AFTER SIX
MONTHS OF OUR INVESTIGATION AND
TEN MONTHS -- 11 MONTHS OF THE
FBI INVESTIGATION OF ANY SUCH
COLLUSION.
>> I DO SUCH WHAT DO WE THINK
HAPPENED AT THE MAY FLOWER?
>> MR. SESSION, YOU ARE FAMILIAR
WITH WHAT SYMPATHIES CALLED TRAY
CRAFT?
>> A LITTLE BIT.
>> THINGS LIKE COVERT
COMMUNICATIONS AND DROPS AND
BRUSH PASSES
>> IT'S PART OF IT.
>> DO YOU LIKE SPY FICTION,
DANIEL SILVER, JASON MATTHEWS?
>> DO YOU LIKE JASON BORN OR
JAMES BONDS MOVIES.
>> NO.
YES, I DO
>> HAVE YOU EVER, IN ANY OF
THESE FANTASTICAL SITUATIONS
HEARD OF A PLOT LINE SO
RIDICULOUS THAT A SITTING UNITED
STATES SENATOR AND AN AMBASSADOR
OF A FOREIGN GOVERNMENT COLLUDED
IN AN OPEN SETTING WITH HUNDREDS
OF OTHER PEOPLE TO PULL OFF THE
GREATEST CAPER IN THE HISTORY?
>> THANK YOU FOR SAYING THAT,
SENATOR COTTON.
IT'S JUST LIKE THROUGH THE
LOOKING GLASS.
I MEAN, WHY IS THIS?
I EXPLAINED HOW IN GOOD FAITH, I
SAID I HAVE NOT MET WITH
RUSSIANS BECAUSE THEY WERE
SUGGESTING I AS SURROGATE HAD
BEEN MEETING CONTINUOUSLY WITH
RUSSIANS.
I SAID I DIDN'T MEET WITH THEM.
AND NOW THE NEXT THING YOU KNOW,
I'M ACCUSED OF SOME, RECEPTION,
PLOTTING SOME SORT OF INFLUENCE
CAMPAIGN FOR THE AMERICAN
ELECTION.
IT'S JUST BEYOND MY CAPABILITY
TO UNDERSTAND AND I REALLY
APPRECIATE, MR. CHAIRMAN, AT
LEAST TO BE ABLE TO SAY PUBLICLY
I DIDN'T PARTICIPATE IN THAT AND
KNOW NOTHING ABOUT IT.
>> I GATHER THAT'S ONE REASON
WHY YOU WANT TO TESTIFY IN
PUBLIC.
LAST WEEK, MR. COMEY, AND
CHARACTERISTIC DRAMATIC FASHION
ALLUDED OMINOUSLY TO WHAT YOU
CALL INNUENDO, THAT THERE WAS
SOME KIND OF CLASSIFIED
INTELLIGENCE THAT SUGGESTED YOU
MIGHT HAVE COLLUDED WITH RUSSIA
OR MIGHT HAVE OTHERWISE ACTED
IMPROPERLY.
YOU ADDRESS THOSE ALLEGATIONS
HERE TODAY, DO YOU UNDERSTAND
WHY YOU MADE THAT ALLUSION
>> ACTUALLY, I DO NOT.
NOBODY PROVIDED ME ANY
INFORMATION
>> THANK YOU, SENATOR, I HAVE A
LOT OF QUESTIONS.
MR. BORN ASKED YOU IF YOU HAD
SPOKEN IN RESPONSE TO HIS
STATEMENT TO YOU AT THE PRIVATE
MEETING WITH THE PRESIDENT ON
FEBRUARY 14 OR 15.
YOU SAID YOU DID RESPOND.
MR. COMEY'S SAID YOU DID NOT.
DO YOU KNOW WHY MR. COMEY SAID
YOU DID NOT RESPOND ON THAT
CONVERSATION WITH YOU ON
FEBRUARY 14 OR 15?
>> I DO NOT.
THERE WAS A CONVERSATION AND I
DID RESPOND HIM PERHAPS NOT TO
EVERYTHING HE ASKED BUT -- I DID
RESPOND TO HIM.
>> DO YOU KNOW WHY MR. COMEY
MISTRUSTED PRESIDENT TRUMP?
YOU SAID LAST WEEK THAT HE DID
BUT DIDN'T STATE ANYTHING FROM
THAT MEETING THAT CAUSED HIM TO
HAVE SUCH MISTRUST.
>> I'M NOT ABLE TO SPECULATE ON
THAT
>> CRIMES THAT WE KNOW HAVE
HAPPENED, LEAKS OF CERTAIN
INFORMATION, HERE'S A SHORT LIST
OF WHAT I HAVE.
THE CONTENTS OF ALLEGED
TRANSCRIPTS OF ALLEGED
CONVERSATIONS BETWEEN MR. FLYNN
AND MR. CURE LACK, THE CONTENTS
OF PRESIDENT TRUMP'S PHONE CALLS
AUSTRALIAN AND MEXICAN LEADERS,
WITH THE RUSSIAN AMBASSADOR, THE
MANCHESTER SUSPECT AND LAST WEEK
THE LEAK OF WHAT THE BASIS OF
MR. COMEY'S INNUENDO WAS.
ARE THESE LEAKS SERIOUS THREATS
TO OUR NATIONAL SECURITY AND IS
THE DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE TAKING
THEM WITH THE APPROPRIATE DEGREE
OF SERIOUS NESS AND
INVESTIGATING AND ULTIMATELY
GOING TO PROSECUTE THEM TO THE
FULLIST EXTENT OF THE LAW
>> THANK YOU, SENATOR COTTON.
WE'VE HAD ONE SUCCESSFUL CASE
RECENTLY IN GEORGIA.
THAT PERSON HAS BEEN DENIED
BAIL, I BELIEVE, AND IS BEING
HELD IN CUSTODY, BUT SOME.
OF THESE LEAKS ARE
EXTRAORDINARILY DAMAGING TO THE
UNITED STATES SECURITY AND WE
HAVE GOT DO RESTORE A REGULAR
ORDER PRINCIPLE.
WE CANNOT HAVE HAVE PERSONS IN
YOUR INTELLIGENCE AGENCIES,
INVESTIGATIVE AGENCIES OR
CONGRESS TO LEAK INFORMATIONS,
STAFF, SO THIS IS I'M AFRAID HAS
ALREADY RESULTED IN
INVESTIGATIONS AND I FEAR THAT
SOME PEOPLE MAY FIND THAT THEY
HAD LEAKED
>> MY TIME EXPIRED BUT FOR THE
RECORD, IT WAS STATED THAT THE
REPUBLICAN PLATFORM WAS WEAKENED
ON POINT OF ARMS REFRAIN, THAT
IS INCORRECT.
THE PLATFORM IS STRENGTHENED AND
I WOULD NOTE IT WAS A DEMOCRATIC
PRESIDENT THAT REFUSED REPEATED
BIPARTISAN REQUESTS OF THIS
CONGRESS TO SUPPLY THOSE ARMS.
>> SENATOR HARRIS
>> ATTORNEY GENERAL SESSION, YOU
HAVE SEVERAL TIMES THIS
AFTERNOON PREFACED YOUR
RESPONSES BY SAYING TO THE BEST
OF YOUR RECOLLECTION.
OF JUST ON THE FIRST PAGE OF
YOUR THREE-PAGES WRITTEN
TESTIMONY, YOU WROTE NOR DO I
RECALL, DO NOT HAVE
RECOLLECTION, DO NOT REMEMBER
IT.
MY QUESTION IS FOR ANY OF YOUR
TESTIMONY TODAY, DID YOU REFRESH
YOUR MEMORY WITH ANY WRITTEN
DOCUMENTS, CALENDAR, WRITTEN
CORRESPONDENCE, E-MAILS, NOTES
OF ANY SORT?
>> I DID REFRESH YOUR
RECOLLECTION BUT SO MUCH OF THIS
IS IN A WHOLESALE CAMPAIGN OF
EXTRAORDINARY NATURE THAT YOU'RE
MOVING SO FAST THAT YOU DON'T
KEEP NOTES, YOU MEET PEOPLE.
I DIDN'T KEEP NOTES OF MY
CONVERSATION WITH RUSSIAN
AMBASSADOR
>> I'D LIKE TO TALK ABOUT.
>> I'M JUST SAYING I DIDN'T KEEP
NOTES.
SO MOST OF THESE THINGS, THERE'S
NOTHING FOR MY
>> DID YOU PROVIDE THIS
COMMITTEE WITH NOTES THAT YOU
DID MAINTAIN?
>> AS APPROPRIATE, I WILL SUPPLY
THE COMMITTEE WITH DOCUMENTS?
CUPS TELL ME WHAT YOU MEAN WHEN
YOU SAY APPROPRIATE
>> I WE DON'T HAVE TO CONSULT
WITH LAWYERS IN THE DEPARTMENT,
WHO KNOW THE PROPER PROCEDURE TO
BEFORE DISCLOSING DOCUMENTS THAT
ARE HELD WITHIN THE DEPARTMENT
OF JUSTICE.
I'M NOT ABLE TO MAKE THAT
OPINION TODAY
>> I'M SURE YOU PREPARED FOR
THIS HEARING TODAY AND MOST OF
THE QUESTIONS THAT HAVE BEEN
PRESENTED TO YOU WERE
PREDICTABLE.
MY QUESTION IS DID YOU REVIEW
WITH THE LAWYER OF YOUR
DEPARTMENT, IF YOU AS THE TOP
LAWYER IS AWARE WHAT LAW IS
REGARDING WHAT YOU CAN AND
CANNOT SHARE WITH US, WHAT IS
PRIVILEGED AND WHAT IS NOT
PRIVILEGED
>> WE DISCUSSED BASIC PARAMETERS
OF TESTIMONY.
FRANKLY, I HAVE NOT DISCUSSED
DOCUMENTARY DISCLOSURE RULES
>> WILL YOU MAKE A COMMITMENT
THAT YOU WILL SHARE WRITTEN
CORRESPONDENCE, CALENDARS,
RECORDS, NOTES, E-MAILS OR
ANYTHING THAT HAS BEEN REDUCED
AT ANY POINT IN TIME IN WRITING
>> I WILL
>> TO THIS COMMITTEE WILL
LEGALLY, YOU ACTUALLY HAVE AN
OBLIGATION TO DO SO.
>> I'LL COMMITTEE TO REVIEWING
THE RULES OF THE DEPARTMENT AND
AS -- AND WHEN THAT ISSUE IS
RAISED TO RESPOND APPROPRIATELY
>> DID YOU HAVE COMMUNICATIONS
WITH RUSSIAN OFFICIALS FOR ANY
REASON DURING THE CAMPAIGN THAT
V BEEN DISCLOSED IN PUBLIC OR TO
THIS COMMITTEE
>> I DON'T RECALL IT BUT I HAVE
TO TELL YOU, I CANNOT TESTIFY TO
WHAT WAS SAID AS WE WERE
STANDING AT THE REPUBLICAN
CONVENTION BEFORE THE PODIUM
WHERE I SPOKE.
I DON'T HAVE A DETAILED MEMORY
OF THAT
>> TO YOUR KNOWLEDGE.
DID YOU HAVE ANY COMMUNICATIONS
WITH ANY RUSSIAN BUSINESSMEN OR
ANY RUSSIAN NATIONALS
>> I DON'T BELIEVE I HAD ANY
CONVERSATION WITH RUSSIAN
BUSINESSMEN OR RUSSIAN
NATIONALS.
>> ARE YOU AWARE
>> A LOT OF PEOPLE WERE AT THE
CONVENTION, IT'S CONCEIVABLE
THAT
>> SIR, I HAVE JUST A FEW
>> LET ME QUALIFY IT.
IF I DON'T QUALIFY IT YOU'LL
ACCUSE ME OF LYING, I NEED TO BE
CORRECT AS BEST I CAN, I'M NOT
ABLE TO BE RUSHED THIS FAST.
MAKES ME NERVOUS
>> ARE YOU AWARE OF
COMMUNICATIONS WITH OTHER TRUMP
CAMPAIGN OFFICIALS AND
ASSOCIATES THAT THEY HAD WITH
RUSSIAN OFFICIALS OR ANY RUSSIAN
NATIONALS?
>> I DON'T RECALL THAT.
>> ARE YOU AWARE OF
>> AT THIS MOMENT.
>> ARE YOU AWARE OF ANY
COMMUNICATIONS WITH ATRIUM
OFFICIALS OR DID YOU HAVE ANY
COMMUNICATIONS WITH ANY
OFFICIALS ABOUT RUSSIA OR
RUSSIAN INTEREST WITH THE UNITED
STATES BEFORE JANUARY 20TH.
>> NO, I MAY HAVE HAD
CONVERSATIONS AND I THINK I DID,
WITH THE GENERAL STRATEGIC
CONCEPT OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
WHETHER OR NOT RUSSIA AND THE
UNITED STATES COULD GET ON A
MORE HORMONE USRELATIONSHIP AND
MOVE OFF THE HOSTILE.
FACT THAT IT COLLAPSED IS A
TRAGIC STRATEGIC EVENT WE'RE NOT
ABLE TO GET AROUND
>> BEFORE BEING SWORN IN AS
ATTORNEY GENERAL, HOW DID YOU
TYPICALLY COMMUNICATE WITH THEN
CANDIDATE OR PRESIDENT ELECT
TRUMP?
>> REPEAT THAT?
>> BEFORE YOU WERE SWORN IN AS
ATTORNEY GENERAL, HOW DID YOU
TYPICALLY COMMUNICATE WITH THEN
CANDIDATE OR PRESIDENT ELECT
TRUMP
>> I DID NOT SUBMIT MEMORANDA.
I DID NOT FORMAL PRESENTATIONS
>> DID YOU EVER COMMUNICATE WITH
HIM IN WRITING.
>> I DON'T BELIEVE SO.
>> YOU REFERRED TO A
LONGSTANDING DOJ POLICY.
CAN YOU TELL US WHAT THAT IS
>> I BELIEVE MOST PEOPLE AS THE
WITNESSES YOU HAD BEFORE YOU
EARLIER, THOSE INDIVIDUALS
DECLINED TO COMMENT BECAUSE IT'S
ABOUT CONVERSATIONS WERE I
PRESIDENT.
LONGSTANDING POLICY THAT GOES
BEYOND JUST THE ATTORNEY
GENERAL.
>> IS THAT POLICY IN WRITING
SOMEWHERE
>> I THINK SO?
DID YOU NOT CONSULT IT BEFORE
YOU CAME BEFORE THIS COMMITTEE
KNOWING THEY WILL BE ASKED
QUESTIONS ABOUT IT
>> WE TALKED ABOUT IT.
THE POLICY IS
>> THE FACT THAT IT WOULD BE
SHOWN TO YOU
>> THE POLICY IS BASED ON THE
PRINCIPLE THAT THE PRESIDENT
>> SIR I'M NOT ASKING ABOUT THE
PRINCIPLE.
I'M ASKING ABOUT
>> I'M NOT UNABLE TO ANSWER.
>> YOU WOULD RELY ON THAT
POLICY?
DID YOU NOT ASK YOUR STAFF TO
SHOW YOU THE POLICY THAT WOULD
BE THE BASIS FOR YOUR REFUSING
TO ANSWER QUESTIONS
>> THE WITNESS SHOULD BE ALLOWED
TO ANSWER THE QUESTION.
>> SENATORS, THE CHAIR WILL
CONTROL THE HEARING.
SENATOR HARRIS, LET HIM ANSWER.
>> THANK YOU.
>> WE TALKED ABOUT IT.
AND WE TALKED ABOUT THE REAL
PRINCIPLES THAT'S AT STAKE IS
ONE THAT I HAVE SOME
APPRECIATION HAVING SPENT 15
YEARS IN THE DEPARTMENT OF
JUSTICE, 12 AS UNITED STATES
ATTORNEY GENERAL, AND THAT
PRINCIPLE IS THAT THE
CONSTITUTION PROVIDES THE HEAD
OF THE EXECUTIVE BRANCH CERTAIN
PRIVILEGES, AND MEMBERS -- ONE
OF THEM IS CONFIDENTIALITY OF
COMMUNICATIONS.
AND IT IS IMPROPER FOR AGENTS OF
ANY OF THE DEPARTMENTS OF -- ANY
DEPARTMENTS IN THE EXECUTIVE
BRANCH TO WAIVE THAT PRIVILEGE
WITHOUT A CLEAR APPROVAL OF THE
PRESIDENT.
THAT'S THE SITUATION WE'RE IN.
>> I'M ASKING FOR A YES OR NO.
DID YOU ASK.
>> I ANSWERED IT, YES, I
CONSULTED.
>>> SENATOR HARRIS,
>> ATTORNEY GENERAL SESSIONS,
FORMER DIRECTOR COMEY HAD A
LETTER TO FBI EMPLOYEES WHEN HE
WAS TERMINATED, STARTED THIS WAY
I'VE LONG BELIEVED THAT A
PRESIDENT CAN FIRE AN FBI
DIRECTOR FOR ANY REASON OR NO
REASON AT ALL.
DO YOU AGREE WITH THAT?
>> YES AND I THINK THAT WAS A
GOOD FOR HIM TO SAY.
BECAUSE I BELIEVE WE'RE GOING TO
HAVE A NEW AN EXCELLENT FBI
DIRECTOR A PERSON WHO IS SMART,
DISCIPLINED, WITH INTEGRITY AND
PROVEN JUDGMENT.
THAT WOULD BE GOOD FOR THE
BUREAU AND I THINK THAT
STATEMENT PROBABLY WAS A
VALUABLE THING FOR DIRECTOR TO
SAY AND I APPRECIATE THAT HE DID
>> TO REITERATE, THE TIMELINE OF
YOUR RECUSAL AND THE ROSEN STEIN
MEMO AND YOUR LETTER TO THE
PRESIDENT, RECOMMENDING THE
TERMINATION OF DIRECTOR COMEY,
YOU RECUSED THE RUSSIAN
INVESTIGATION ON MARCH THE 2;
CORRECT
>> THE FORMER RECUSAL TOOK PLACE
I WANT DAY?
THE LETTER THAT YOU WROTE
FORWARDING THE ROSEN STEIN MEMO
TO THE PRESIDENT IS A BASIS FOR
DIRECTOR COMEY'S TERMINATION WAS
DATED MAY 9.
A COUPLE OF MONTHS AFTER YOU
RECUSED FROM THE RUSSIAN
INVESTIGATION; CORRECT.
>> I BELIEVE THAT'S CORRECT.
>> SO ISN'T IT TRUE THAT THE
RUSSIAN INVESTIGATION DID NOT
FACTOR INTO THE, YOUR
RECOMMENDATION TO FIRE DIRECTOR
COMEY?
>> THAT IS CORRECT.
>> THE MEMORANDUM WRITTEN BY THE
DEPUTY ATTORNEY GENERAL, YOUR
LETTER TO THE PRESIDENT
FORWARDING THAT RECOMMENDING
DIDN'T MENTION RUSSIA AT ALL.
IS THAT YOUR RECOLLECTION
>> THAT IS CORRECT.
>> LET'S REVIEW WHAT THE BASIS
WAS OF DEPUTY ATTORNEY GENERAL
ROSEN STIEN'S RECOMMENDATION, HE
WROTE IN HIS MEMO, HE SAID I
CANNOT DEFEND THE DIRECTOR'S
HANDLING OF THE CONCLUSION OF
HAVING OF SECRETARY CLINTON'S
E-MAILS AND I DID NOT UNDERSTAND
HIS REFUSAL TO ACCEPT THE NEARLY
UNIVERSAL JUDGMENT THAT HE WAS
MISTAKEN AND OF COURSE, HE'S
TALKING ABOUT DIRECTOR COMEY.
HE WENT ON TO SAY, THE DIRECTOR
THAT WAS DIRECTOR COMEY AT THE
TIME, WAS WRONG TO USURP THE
ATTORNEY GENERAL'S AUTHORITY ON
JULY 5, 2016.
DO YOU RECALL THAT WAS THE DATE
OF THE PRESS CONFERENCE, HE
HELD.
HE WENT ON TO SAY, THAT THE FBI
DIRECTOR IS NEVER EMPOWERED TO
PLAN FEDERAL PROSECUTORS AND
ASSUME COMMAND OF THE JUSTICE
DEPARTMENT.
FINALLY HE SAID, COMPOUNDING THE
ERROR, THE DIRECTOR IGNORED
ANOTHER LONG-STANDING PRINCIPLE
THAT WE DO NOT HOLD PRESS
CONFERENCES TO REACH DIRECTOR
TOUR INFORMATION ABOUT THE
SUBJECT OF A DECLINED CRIMINAL
INVESTIGATION.
IN FACT, THERE IS WRITTEN POLICY
PROJECT DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE,
IS THERE NOT, ENTITLED ELECTION
YEAR SENSITIVITY TO SAY.
ARE YOU FAMILIAR WITH THE
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT MAKING
ANNOUNCEMENTS OR TAKING OTHER
ACTIONS THAT MIGHT INTERFERE
WITH THE NORMAL ELECTIONS?
>> I AM GENERALLY FAMILIAR WITH
THAT.
MEMORANDA AFTER MY TIME IN THE
DEPARTMENT.
>> LET ME
>> ALWAYS BEEN RULES ABOUT IT
THOUGH
>> LET ME READ THE EXCERPT FROM
THE MEMO FROM MARCH 9, 2012,
ENTITLED ELECTION YEAR SENSITIVE
AT HIS.
LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICERS AND
PROSECUTORS MAY NEVER SELECT THE
TIMING OF INVESTIGATIVE STEPS OR
CRIMINAL CHARGES FOR THE PURPOSE
OF EFFECTING IN THE ELECTION.
OR FOR THE PURPOSE OF GIVING AN
ADVANTAGE OR DISADVANTAGE TO ANY
CANDIDATE OR POLITICAL PARTY.
SUCH PURPOSE IS INCONSISTENT
WITH THE DEPARTMENT'S MISSION
AND WITH THE PRINCIPLES OF
FEDERAL PROSECUTION.
DO YOU AGREE WITH THAT?
>> ESSENTIALLY, YES.
>> SO ESSENTIALLY, THE DEPUTY
ATTORNEY GENERAL SAID IS THAT
FORMER DIRECTOR COMEY VIOLATED
THE DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
DETECTIVES WHEN HE HELD THE
PRESS CONFERENCE ON JULY 5,
2016.
HE ANNOUNCED THAT SECRETARY
CLINTON WAS EXTREMELY CARE LESS
WITH CLASSIFIED E-MAIL AND WENT
ON TO RELEASE OTHER DEROGATORY
INFORMATION INCLUDING THIS
CONCLUSION THAT SHE WAS
EXTREMELY CARE LESS, YET WENT ON
TO SAY THAT NO REASONABLE
PROSECUTOR WOULD PROSECUTE HER.
THAT IS NOT THE ROLE OF THE FBI
DIRECTOR.
IS IT?
THAT IS A JOB FOR THE
PROSECUTORS AT THE DEPARTMENT OF
JUSTICE, THAT'S WHAT WAS MEANT
BY DEPUTY ATTORNEY GENERAL ROSEN
STEIN WHEN HE SAID THAT DR.
COMEY USURPED THE ROLE OF THE
DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
PROSECUTORS SATURDAY?
>> THAT IS CORRECT AND FORMER
ATTORNEY GENERAL BILL BAR WROTE
RECENTLY IN WHICH HE SAID HE HAD
ASSUMED THAT ATTORNEY GENERAL
LYNCH HAD URGED MR. COMEY TO
MAKE THIS ANNOUNCEMENT SO SHE
WOULDN'T HAVE TO DO IT.
BUT IN FACT, IT APPEARS HE DID
IT WITHOUT HER APPROVAL,
TOTALLY.
AND THAT IS A PRETTY STUNNING
THING, IT IS A STUNNING THING.
AND IT VIOLATES FUNDAMENTAL
POWERS AND WHEN HE REAFFIRMED
THAT THE RIGHTNESS HE BELIEVES
OF HIS DECISION ON MAY 3, I
BELIEVE IT WAS, THAT WAS
ADDITIONAL CONFIRMATION THAT THE
DIRECTOR'S THINKING WAS NOT
CLEAR.
>> THANK YOU.
OTHERS HAVE RAISED THE ISSUE OF
LONGSTANDING RULES.
IF THERE ARE WRITTEN RULES WOULD
YOU PROVIDE THEM TO THE
COMMITTEE, PLEASE?
>> I WILL.
>> THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
>> NOW, THE POINT HAS BEEN MADE
THAT THE WHOLE SUBSTANCE OF YOUR
RECOMMENDATION TO THE PRESIDENT
TO DISMISS DIRECTOR COMEY WAS
HIS UNPROFESSIONAL CONDUCT WITH
RESPECT TO THE CLINTON
ADMINISTRATION.
IS THAT CORRECT.
>> I SUPPORTED EVERYTHING THAT
THE DEPUTY ATTORNEY GENERAL PUT
IN HIS MEMORANDA AS GOOD AND
IMPORTANT FACTORS TO USE IN
DETERMINING WHETHER OR NOT HE
HAD CONDUCTED HIMSELF IN WAY
THAT JUSTIFIED CONTINUING IN
OFFICE.
I THINK IT PRETTY WELL SPEAKS
FOR ITSELF AND I BELIEVE MOST OF
IT DID DEAL WITH THAT.
THE DISCUSSION ABOUT HIS
PERFORMANCE WAS A BIPARTISAN
DISCUSSION.
IT BEGAN DURING THE ELECTION
TIME.
DEMOCRATS WERE VERY UNHAPPY
ABOUT THE WAY HE CONDUCTED
HIMSELF.
AND IN RETROSPECT, IN LOOKING AT
IT, I THINK IT WAS MORE
EGREGIOUS AND I MAY HAVE EVEN
UNDERSTOOD AT THE TIME.
WITH REGARD TO
>> IF I MAY, I DON'T WANT TO CUT
YOU OFF
>> I'LL LET YOU GO.
I'M SORRY.
>> EXCUSE ME, SIR.
ON JULY 7, WHEN MR. COMEY MADE
HIS FIRST ANNOUNCEMENT ABOUT THE
CASE, YOU WERE ON FOX NEWS AND
YOU SAID FIRST OF ALL, DIRECTOR
COMEY IS A SKILLED FORMER
PROSECUTOR AND THEN CONCLUDED BY
SAYING ESSENTIALLY THAT IT'S NOT
HIS PROBLEM.
IT'S HILLARY CLINTON'S PROBLEM.
THEN IN NOVEMBER, NOVEMBER 6
AFTER IN YOUR COMEY AGAIN MADE
NEWS IN LATE OCTOBER BY
REOPENING, IF YOU WILL THE
INVESTIGATION, YOU SAID AGAIN ON
FOX NEWS, FBI DIRECTOR DID THE
RIGHT THING WHEN HE FOUND NEW
EVIDENCE.
HE HAD NO CHOICE BUT TO REPORT
IT TO THE AMERICAN CONGRESS.
HE HAD UNDER OATH TESTIFIED.
THE INVESTIGATION WAS OVER.
HE HAD TO CORRECT THAT AND SAY,
THIS INVESTIGATION ONGOING NOW
I'M SURE IT'S SIGNIFICANT OR
ELSE HE WOULDN'T HAVE ANNOUNCED
THAT.
SO IN JULY AND NOVEMBER DIRECTOR
COMEY WAS DOING EXACTLY THE
RIGHT THING, YOU FELT THAT IN
FACT, HE WAS A SKILLED
PROFESSIONAL PROSECUTOR, YOU
FELT THAT HIS LAST STATEMENT IN
OCTOBER WAS FULLY JUSTIFIED.
SO HOW CAN YOU GO FROM THOSE
STATEMENTS TO AGREEING WITH MR.
ROSEN STEIN AND THEN ASKING THE
PRESIDENT FOR RECOMMENDING HE BE
FIRED?
>> I THINK, IN RETROSPECT, AS
ALL OF US BEGIN TO LOOK AT THAT
CLEARLY AND TALK ABOUT I --
ONCE THE DIRECTOR, FIRST GOT
INVOLVED AND EM BRAWLED IN A
PUBLIC DISCUSSION OF THIS
INVESTIGATION, WHICH WOULD HAVE
BEEN BETTER NEVER TO HAVE BEEN
DISCUSSED PROBABLY AND SAID IT
WAS OVER, THEN WHEN HE FOUND NEW
EVIDENCE, THAT CAME UP, I THINK
HE PROBABLY WAS REQUIRED TO TELL
CONGRESS THAT IT WASN'T OVER.
THAT NEW EVIDENCE HAD BEEN
DEVELOPED.
IT PROBABLY WOULD HAVE BEEN
BETTER AND WOULD HAVE BEEN
CONSISTENT WITH THE RULES OF THE
DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE TO NEVER
TALKED ABOUT THE INVESTIGATION
TO BEGIN WITH.
ONCE YOU GET DOWN THAT ROAD,
THAT'S THE KIND OF THING THAT
YOU GET INTO, THAT WENT AGAINST
CLASSICAL PROSECUTING OF
POLICIES THAT I LEARNED AND WAS
TAUGHT WHEN I WAS A UNITED
STATES ATTORNEY AND ASSISTANT
UNITED STATES ATTORNEY
>> LET ME ASK ANOTHER QUESTION.
YOUR WHOLE PREMISE IN
RECOMMENDING TO THE PRESIDENT
WAS THE ACTIONS IN OCTOBER
INVOLVING SECRETARY OF STATE
CLINTON, THE WHOLE CLINTON
CONTROVERSY.
DID YOU FEEL MISLED WHEN THE
PRESIDENT ANNOUNCED THAT THE
REAL REASON FOR DISMISSING MR.
COMEY WAS THE RUSSIAN
INVESTIGATION
>> I'M NOT ABLE TO CHARACTERIZE
THAT -- I WOULDN'T TRY TO
COMMENT ON THAT
>> SO YOU HAD NO INKLING THAT
THERE WAS ANYTHING TO DO WITH
RUSSIA UNTIL THE PRESIDENT OF
THE UNITED STATES BASICALLY
DECLARED NOT ONLY ON TV, BUT IN
THE OVAL OFFICE TO THE RUSSIAN
FOREIGN MINISTER SAYING THE
PRESSURE IS OFF NOW, I GOT RID
OF THAT NUT JOB.
THAT CAME TO YOU AS A COMPLETE
SURPRISE
>> ALL I CAN SAY SENATOR REED
OUR RECOMMENDATION WAS PUT IN
WRITING AND I BELIEVE IT WAS
CORRECT, AND I BELIEVE THE
PRESIDENT VALUED IT BUT MADE HIS
DECISION, IT WAS HIS
>> YOU HAD NO INKLING THAT HE
WAS CONSIDERING THE RUSSIAN
INVESTIGATION?
>> I'M NOT GOING TO TRY TO GUESS
WHAT I THOUGHT
>>I JUST -- THERE IS THE --
THERE A SCENARIO IN WHICH THIS
WHOLE RECAPITULATION OF CLINTON
WAS A STORY BASICALLY, A COVER
STORY THAT THE PRESIDENT TRIED
TO PUT OUT, AND THAT HE QUICKLY
ABANDONED AND HIS REAL REASON
WAS RUSSIAN INVESTIGATION, WHICH
IF HAD BEEN THE CASE, I WOULD
SUSPECT YOU WOULD HAVE RECUSED
YOURSELF FROM ANY INVOLVEMENT?
THANK YOU.
>>> NOR McCAIN.
>> OVER THE LAST FEW WEEKS, THE
ADMINISTRATION CHARACTERIZED
YOUR PREVIOUSLY UNDISCLOSED
MEETINGS WITH RUSSIAN IS
AMBASSADOR KISLIAK, THE MEETINGS
YOU TOOK IN YOUR OFFICIAL
CAPACITY AS A U.S. SENATOR, AND
A MEMBER OF THE ARMED SERVICES
COMMITTEE.
AS CHAIRMAN OF THAT COMMITTEE,
LET ME ASK YOU A FEW QUESTIONS
ABOUT THAT.
DID YOU RAISE CONCERN ABOUT
RUSSIAN INVASION OF UKRAINE?
>> I DID, SENATOR McCAINE AND I
WOULD LIKE TO FOLLOW UP A LITTLE
BIT ON THAT AS ONE OF THE MEANS
THAT'S ONE OF THE ISSUES THAT I
RECALL EXPLICITLY, THE DAY
BEFORE MY MEETING WITH THE
RUSSIAN AMBASSADOR, I MET WITH
UKRAINIAN AMBASSADOR AND I HEARD
HIS CONCERNS ABOUT RUSSIA SO I
RAISED THOSE WITH MR. KISLIAK
AND HE GAVE, NOT ONE INCH,
EVERYTHING THEY DID, THE
RUSSIANS HAD DONE ACCORDING TO
HIM WAS CORRECT, AND I REMEMBER
PUSHING BACK ON IT, AND A LITTLE
BIT TESTY ON THAT SUBJECT.
>> I CAN'T IMAGINE THAT.
DID YOU RAISE CONCERNS OF
PRESIDENT BASHAR RASH AD ABOUT
THE USE OF CHEMICAL WEAPONS
>> I DON'T RECALL
>> DID YOU, INTERFERENCE OF THE
ELECTION TORE RELAY PROCESS
>> I DON'T RECALL.
IF YOU SPOKE WITH KISS LIAK, YOU
PRESUMABLY TALKED TO HIM ABOUT
RUSSIA RELATED SECURITY ISSUES
THAT YOU DEMONSTRATED WAS
IMPORTANT TO YOU AS A MEMBER OF
THE COMMITTEE?
>> DID I DISCUSS
>> I DON'T RECALL YOURS BEING
PARTICULARLY VOCAL, SUCH ISSUES.
>> THE WHOLE ARE YOU SURE RUSSIA
RUSH RELATED SECURITY ISSUES.
DID YOU RAISE THAT ISSUE WITH
THEM
>> YOU MEAN --
>> IN OTHER WORDS, RUSSIA
RELATED SECURITY ISSUES ARE IN A
CAPACITY AS CHAIRMAN OF THE
STRATEGIC FORCES SUBCOMMITTEE,
WHAT RUSSIA RELATED SECURITY
ISSUES DID YOU HOLD HEARINGS ON
AND OTHERWISE DEMONSTRATE A KEEN
INTEREST IN
>> WE MAY HAVE DISCUSSED THAT.
I DON'T RECALL A REAL RECALL OF
THE MEETING.
I WAS NOT MAKING A REPORT ABOUT
IT TO ANYONE, I JUST RAW
BASICALLY WILLING TO MEET AND
SEE WHAT WAS DISCUSSED.
BUT I DON'T RECALL.
>> IN 2016 CAMPAIGN SEASON, DID
YOU HAVE ANY CONTACTS WITH ANY
REPRESENTATIVE INCLUDING ANY
AMERICAN LOBBIEST OR AGENT OF
ANY RUSSIAN COMPANY WITHIN OR
OUTSIDE YOUR CAPACITY AS A
MEMBER OF CONGRESS AND ARMED
SERVICES COMMITTEE
>> I DON'T BELIEVE SO
>> RECENT REPORT IN THE MIDDLE
OF A 2016 ELECTIONS THE FBI
FOUND THAT RUSSIAN DIPLOMATS WHO
TRAVELED WITH THE STATE
DEPARTMENT WAS SUPPOSED TO TRACK
AND GONE MISSING SOME TURNED UP
WANDERING AROUND THE DESERT,
DRIVING AROUND KANSAS,
REPORTEDLY SOURCES CONCLUDED
AFTER ABOUT A YEAR, THESE
MOVEMENTS INDICATE ONE THAT USS
MONTHS GAME GONE STRONGER AND
MORE BRAZEN AND QUIETLY THE
KREMLIN HAS BEEN TRYING TO MAP
THE UNITED STATES
TELECOMMUNICATIONS
INFRASTRUCTURE.
WHAT DO YOU KNOW ABOUT THIS
DEVELOPMENT AND HOW THE JUSTICE
DEPARTMENT AND OTHER RELEVANT
U.S. GOVERNMENT AGENCIES
RESPONDING TO IT
>> WE NEED TO DO MORE, SENATOR
McC AIN.
I AM WORRIED ABOUT IT.
WE SEE IT FROM OTHER NATIONS
WITH TECHNOLOGICAL SKILLS LIKE
CHINA THAT ARE PENETRATING OUR
NATIONAL SECURITY INTEREST.
AS A MEMBER OF THE ARMED
SERVICES COMMITTEE, I DID
SUPPORT AND ADVOCATE AND I THINK
YOU SUPPORTED LEGISLATION AND
IT'S ONGOING NOW THAT REQUIRES
THE DEFENSE DEPARTMENT TO
IDENTIFY WEAKNESSES IN OUR
SYSTEM AND HOW WE CAN FIX THEM.
BUT I WOULD SAY TO YOU, SENATOR
McC AIN, IN MY SHORTENIER AT THE
DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE, I'D BE
MORE CONCERN ABOUT COMPUTER
HACKING AND THOSE ISSUES IN THE
SENATE, SOME IMPORTANT ISSUE,
YOU'RE CORRECT
>> WASHINGTON POST REPORTED
RUSSIA DEVELOPED A CYBER WEAPON
THAT CAN DISRUPT UNITED STATES
POWER GRILLS AND
TELECOMMUNICATIONS
INFRASTRUCTURE, THIS WEAPON IS
SIMILAR TO WHAT RUSSIA OR
RUSSIAN ALLIED HACKERS USED IN
2015.
DISCUSS A LITTLE BIT IN OPEN
SESSION HOW SERIOUS THAT IS?
>> I DON'T BELIEVE I CAN DISCUSS
THE TECHNOLOGICAL ISSUES, JUST
TO SAY THAT IT IS VERY
DISTURBING THAT THE RUSSIANS
CONTINUE TO PUSH HOSTILE ACTIONS
IN ANESTHESIA FOREIGN POLICY.
IT'S NOT GOOD FOR THE UNITED
STATES OR THE WORLD OR RUSSIA,
IN MY OPINION.
>> DO YOU BELIEVE WE HAVE A
STRATEGY IN ORDER TO COUNTER
THESE EVER INCREASING THREATS TO
OUR NATIONAL SECURITY AND OUR
WAY OF LIFE?
>> NOT SUFFICIENT.
WE DO NOT HAVE A SUFFICIENT
STRATEGY DEALING WITH
TECHNOLOGICAL AND IT
PENETRATIONS OF OUR SYSTEM, IT'S
MORE IMPORTANT THAN I EVER DID
BEFORE, AND APPRECIATE YOUR
CONCERN AND LEADERSHIP ON THAT
ISSUE.
AND IN FACT, ALL OF CONGRESS IS
GOING TO HAVE TO DO BETTER.
>>> TIME IS EXPIRED.
>> VICE CHAIR.
>> I PARTICULARLY APPRECIATE
YOUR LAST COMMENTS WITH SENATOR
McCAINE ABOUT SERIOUS NESS OF
THIS THREAT AND WHY SO MANY OF
US ON THIS COMMITTEE ARE
CONCERNED WHEN THE WHOLE
QUESTION OF RUSSIAN
INTERVENTION.
THE PRESIDENT CONTINUES TO REFER
TO IT AS A WITCH HUNT AND FAKE
NEWS.
AND THERE DOESN'T SEEM TO BE A
RECOGNITION OF THE SERIOUS NESS
OF THIS THREAT I SHARE I THINK
MOST MEMBERS DO THE CONCENSUS
THAT THE RUSSIANS MASSIVELY
INTERFERED AND WANT TO CONTINUE
TO INTERFERE, NOT TO STAY WITH
ONE PARTY OR THE OTHER BUT FAVOR
THEORY OWN INTEREST AND IT IS OF
ENORMOUS CONCERN THAT WE HAVE TO
HEAR FROM THE ADMINISTRATION HOW
THEY'RE I'M GOING TO TAKE THAT
ON.
I ALSO COMMENTS HAVE BEEN MADE
ABOUT WHERE WE HAD IN TERMS OF
SOME OF THE TRUMP ASSOCIATES WHO
MAY HAVE HAD CONTACTS WITH
RUSSIANS.
WE HAVE NOT GOTTEN TO ALL OF
THAT YET BECAUSE OF THE
UNPRECEDENTED FIRING OF THE FBI
DIRECTOR THAT WAS LEADING THIS
VERY SAME RUSSIAN INVESTIGATION
SUPERSEDED SOME OF THE ACTIVITY.
THOSE MEMBER WHOSE I HOPE WILL
EQUALLY PURSUE THE VERY
TROUBLING AMOUNT OF SMOKE AT
LEAST THAT'S OUT THERE BETWEEN
INDIVIDUALS THAT WERE AFFILIATED
WITH THE TRUMP CAMPAIGN AND ALSO
TIES WITH RUSSIA.
I UNDERSTAND YOUR POINT BUT YOU
HAVE TO -- THERE WERE SERIOUS
COMMENTS MADE BY MR. COMEY LAST
WEEK.
I THINK MEMBERS ON THIS SIDE OF
THE AISLE INDICATED, UNDERSTAND
EXECUTIVE PRIVILEGE, UNDERSTAND
CLASSIFIED SETTING.
I DO THINK WE NEED, IF THERE ARE
THESE LONGSTANDING WRITTEN
PROCEDURES ABOUT THIS ABILITY TO
HAVE SOME OTHER CATEGORY TO THE
CONVERSATIONS WITH THE
PRESIDENT, WE'D LIKE TO GET A
LOOK AT THEM BECAUSE WE NEED TO
FIND OUT IN LIGHT OF SOME
CONTRADICTIONS BETWEEN TODAY AND
LAST WEEK, WHERE THIS ALL HAD TO
DEAL WITH TODAY, THIS IS NOT
ONLY -- STAY WITH US -- IT'S NOT
ABOUT 2016, IT IS ABOUT FINDING
OUT WHAT HAPPENED ABOUT THE
SERIOUS ALLEGATIONS ABOUT
POTENTIAL TIES, BUT ON A GOING
FORWARD BASIS MAKING SURE THAT
THE RUSSIANS WHO ARE NOT
FINISHED IN TERMS OF THEIR
ACTIVITIES, IT IS ONGOING AND WE
HAVE TO BE BETTER PREPARED ON AN
ONGOING BASIS, THANK YOU.
OF
>> MR. CHAIRMAN ONE BRIEF
COMMENT.
IF YOU MIND.
A CHANGE AT THE TOP OF THE FBI
SHOULD HAVE NO IMPACT WHATSOEVER
ON THE INVESTIGATION.
THOSE TEAMS HAVE BEEN WORKING
AND THEY WILL CONTINUE TO WORK
AND THEY'VE NOT BEEN ALTERED IN
ANY WAY.
BUT THERE ARE A NUMBER OF VERY
STRANGE COMMENTS THAT MR. COMEY
TESTIFIED TO LAST WEEK THAT YOU
COULD HAVE SHED LIGHT ON.
WE'LL CONTINUE
>>> GENERAL SESSIONS THANK YOU
AGAIN FOR YOUR WILLINGNESS TO BE
HERE.
I'M NOT SURE THAT YOU KNEW IT
BUT YOUR REPLACEMENT SAT THROUGH
MOST OF THE HEARINGS.
WE DON'T HAVE ANY BASKETBALL
TEAM AT THIS TIME.
GOOD ROUND BALL PLAYER.
>>> YOU'VE BEEN ASKED A WIDE
RANGE OF QUESTIONS.
AND I THINK YOU'VE ANSWERED
THINGS RELATED TO CLAIMS ABOUT
THE MEETING AT THE MAY FLOWER,
QUESTIONS THAT SURROUND THE
REASONS OF YOUR RECUSAL AND THE
FACT THAT YOU HAD NEVER BEEN
BRIEFED SINCE DAY ONE ON THE
INVESTIGATION.
BUT YOU MADE CLEAR THAT YOU
CAN'T THINK OF ANY OTHER
CONVERSATIONS THAT YOU HAD WITH
RUSSIAN OFFICIALS OR YOU'VE
COVERED IN DETAILS THE
CONVERSATION THAT YOU HAD,
THOUGH BRIEF, WITH DIRECTOR
COMEY THAT HE REFERENCED TO IN
HIS PRIVATE MEETING WITH THE
PRESIDENT.
JUST TO NAME A FEW THINGS THAT I
THINK YOU HELPED US CLEAR UP.
THERE WERE SEVERAL QUESTIONS
THAT YOU CHOSE NOT TO ANSWER,
BECAUSE OF CONFIDENTIALITY WITH
THE PRESIDENT.
I WOULD ONLY ASK YOU, NOW, TO GO
BACK AND THE WHITE HOUSE TO SEE
IF THERE ARE ERRORS OF QUESTIONS
THAT THEY FEEL COMFORTABLE WITH
YOU ASKING AND IF THEY DO WOULD
YOU PROVIDE THOSE ANSWERS IN
WRITING TO COMMITTEE.
I WOULD ALSO BE REMISS IF I
DIDN'T REMIND YOU THOSE
DOCUMENTS THAT YOU CAN PRO
PROVIDE TO THE COMMITTEE THEY
WOULD BE HELPFUL TO US FOR
PURPOSE OF TIMELINES OR ANYTHING
THAT SUBSTANTIATES YOUR
TESTIMONY TODAY INDIVIDUALS WHO
MIGHT HAVE BEEN AT AN EVENT THAT
YOU'RE FAMILIAR WITH, ESPECIALLY
THOSE THAT WOULD BE EXTREMELY
HELPFUL.
MORE IMPORTANTLY, I WANT TO
THANK YOU FOR YOUR AGREEMENT TO
HAVE CONTINUING DIALOGUE WITH US
AS WE MIGHT NEED TO ASK SOME
ADDITIONAL QUESTIONS AS WE GO A
LITTLE FURTHER DOWN THE
INVESTIGATION.
THAT CERTAINLY DOES NOT HAVE TO
BE A PUBLIC HEARING.
BUT IT MAY BE AN EXCHANGE OF
DIALOGUE THAT WE HAVE.
YOU HAVE HELPED US TREMENDOUSLY
AND WE'RE GRATEFUL TO YOU FOR
THE UNBELIEVABLE SACRIFICE THAT
YOU MADE IN THIS INSTITUTION BUT
ALSO NOW IN THIS ADMINISTRATION.
THIS HEARING IS NOW ADJOURNED.
>> THANK YOU.
>> THAT CONCLUDES THE HEARING
BEFORE THE SENATE SELECT
COMMITTEE ON INTELLIGENCE, I'M
JUDY WOODRUFF, BACK WITH THE
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT OFFICIALS
WALTER DELLINGER.
IT WAS AN EMPHATIC DENIAL THAT
HE HAD ANY IMPROPER CONTACT OR
COMMUNICATIONS WITH RUSSIAN
OFFICIALS EITHER DURING THE
CAMPAIGN OR AFTERWARDS.
AND HE WAS ALSO THIS BECAME A
CONTENTIOUS, YOU HEARD IT AGAIN
FROM THE CHAIRMAN SENATOR BURR
WHO REFUSED TO DISCUSS HIS
CONVERSATIONS WITH PRESIDENT
TRUMP ABOUT THE FIRING OF FBI
DIRECTOR COMEY, AND ABOUT THE
RUSSIAN INVESTIGATION OVERALL.
ON WHAT BASIS WOULD YOU AN
ATTORNEY GENERAL SAY I CANNOT
ANSWER QUESTIONS ABOUT MY
CONVERSATIONS WITH THE
PRESIDENT?
>> WELL, HE COULD INVOKE
EXECUTIVE PRIVILEGE BUT HE
DIDN'T WANT TO DO THAT OBVIOUSLY
BECAUSE THE PRESIDENT HAS TO BE
ONE TO INVOKE EXECUTIVE
PRIVILEGE.
AND THE WANT TO ANSWER THE
QUESTION BUT HE DIDN'T WANT TO
INVOKE EXECUTIVE PRIVILEGE.
AFTER DOZEN TIMES NOW ANSWERED
THE QUESTION, HE DID SAY, LOOK,
I NEED TO GO BACK TO THE WHITE
HOUSE, I NEED TO PROTECT THE
PRESIDENT'S RIGHT TO ASSERT
EXECUTIVE PRIVILEGE.
SO THE PROPER FOLLOW-UP WOULD BE
FOR THE COMMITTEE TO SAY, HEAR
THE QUESTIONS QUESTIONS.
DID YOU DISCUSS THE COMEY FIRING
WITH THE PRESIDENT?
AND DOES THE PRESIDENT WANT TO
ASSERT IN WRITING EXECUTIVE
PRIVILEGE
>> AND THAT WAS AN ANSWER I
THINK TO A QUESTION WHO WAS
PUSHING HIM ON QUESTION OF
SAYING THE PRESIDENT HAS NOT
ASKED YOU TO -- I'M NOT
EXERCISING THE EXECUTIVE
PRIVILEGE BUT YOU'RE STILL NOT
ANSWERING OUR QUESTIONS AND HIS
RESPONSE WAS, I BELIEVE THAT'S
CONFIDENTIAL AND I'M ABIDING BY
LONG-TIME JUSTICE DEPARTMENT
POLICY.
HERE'S SOMEONE WHO WORKED AT THE
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT.
>> I KNOW OF NO SUCH
LONGSTANDING POLICY.
IT WOULD MAKE SENSE TO SAY, THIS
IS AN AREA THE PRESIDENT MAY
WANT TO INVOKE EXECUTIVE
PRIVILEGE ABOUT AND I NEED TO
ASK HIM THAT.
IT WAS LONG TIME BEFORE HE GOT
THERE, AND IT WAS SOME INDIRECT
WHEN HE RESPONDED THAT WAY.
I DON'T KNOW OF ANY LONGSTANDING
POLICY.
EXCEPT FOR EXECUTIVE PRIVILEGE
SIMPLY PREFER NOT TO ANSWER
QUESTIONS
>> IT WAS NOTABLE AT THE END
THAT THE CHAIRMAN, SENATOR BURR
DID ASK THE ATTORNEY GENERAL TO
GO BACK TO THE WHITE HOUSE AND
TO SEE IF THERE'S ANYTHING HE
CAN REVEAL EITHER SPOKEN OR
WRITTEN BETWEEN THEM.
I THOUGHT IT WAS NOTABLE ON
SEVERAL OTHER FRONTS, HE SAID HE
WAS COMFORTABLE WITH THE FIRING
OF JAMES COMEY AS FBI DIRECTOR
BECAUSE HE DIDN'T APPROVE OF THE
WAY HE HAD HANDLED THE CLINTON
INVESTIGATION, I WAS ALSO STRUCK
QUICKLY WALTER, HE SAID HE HAD
NEVER ASKED FOR A BRIEFING SINCE
HE'S BEEN ATTORNEY GENERAL ON
THE RUSSIA ATTEMPTS TO INTERFERE
WITH THE U.S. ELECTION
>> IT WAS QUITE STRIKING HOW
UNDER STATED HE WAS.
HE WAS VERY EFFECTIVE DENYING
HIS OWN INVOLVE BUT UNDER STATED
ABOUT THE FACT THAT A FOREIGN
MILITARY POWER HAD TO DISRUPT
OUR ELECTIONS HE SAID IT WAS
IMPROPER.
BUT THEN HE SPOKE ABOUT HE
WANTED TO GET ON BETTER TRACK.
TO SEEMED VERY UNDER STATED
>> AS YOU SAID MADE A POINT ONE
POINT IN THIS HEARING OF SAYING
WE SHOULD HAVE BETTER RELATIONS
WITH THE RUSSIANS BUT THE SOVIET
UNION HAS COLLAPSED.
WALTER DELLINGER, FORMER ACTING
SOLICITOR GENERAL THANK YOU FOR
BEING WITH US, THAT WRAP YOU SAY
UP THE SPECIAL PBS NEWS HOUR
COVERAGE.
PLEASE JOIN US LATER ON THE NEWS
HOUR FOR FULL COVERAGE OF THIS
HEARING, REACTION TO IT AND THE
OTHER NEWS OF THE DAY.
THAT WILL BE RIGHT HERE ON YOUR
PBS STATION, YOU CAN ALSO WATCH
ANY PART OF THE HEARING WHICH
YOU MIGHT HAVE MISSED.
YOU CAN FIND NEWS YOU WANT DATES
AT PBS.ORG/NEWS HOUR, FOR ALL OF
US, THANK YOU FOR WATCHING.